we are attracted to men that fulfill
their potential if you're motivation for
becoming rich is getting more women you
have to think about the quality of women
if it takes money to access her you are
replaceable I want to start with a quote
from you if I may what social media is
doing what this woke culture is doing is
destroying femininity and replacing it
with narcissism and telling them that's
feminism
now you've also said that modern dating
is just training for divorce now if you
had to get specific what problems is
modern dating creating exactly and if
you could control the social media
algorithms what values would you want to
present to people to make them better at
romantic relationships the more amazing
question thank you for asking such an
insightful question I think what's
happened and I don't mean mean to blame
the audience the reality is we're not
designed for this level of exposure to
human beings as we are being exposed to
in this current climate we have social
media we have Internet we have dating
apps we have the ability to get webcam
girls pornography we have such an
exposure to humans that we've never been
able to do or nor are we prepared for so
what's happened is when it comes to
forming relationships it's done the
opposite what it's done it's made people
crave connections but have no idea where
to start and how to connect so the
reality is what me when I say we've
turned narcissism into and labeled it as
feminism unfortunately the Advent of
social media has accelerated the status
of women far more than it has for men
what social media has done is allowed
women a platform to kind of showcase
their body their preferences basically
put themselves on the marketplace men
don't really have that same access so
we're creating that division between
them and what it's done is allowed women
to leverage their beauty in a way that
they've never been able to do before
before if you're a beautiful girl you
were just beautiful in your city and
people would like you but you'd marry
the guy in the city and you'd have a
great life unfortunately now if you're a
beautiful girl you can be a beautiful
girl to the world and you can have a
million followers so it makes every man
disposable any man she's with
essentially becomes disposable so
unfortunately what's happening is women
are learning that they become this
almost like a deity in terms of beauty
in a way that they've never had before
so that's what I think is happening for
women in terms of men the main problem
that's occurring is the access to
pornography and the access to beautiful
women what that is doing is them seeing
all these beautiful girls thinking I
want those girls but I don't want
rejection so what I'll do is find a way
to access those goals and it comes in
the form of pornography or webcams or
anything like that so what's happening
is we're distancing the Sexes from each
other through the Advent of the internet
and if I could control the algorithm I
would wish there was a way of people
being as honest and sincere as they
possibly could be and removing the idea
of trying to protect themselves in the
form of idolizing money or sex because
that's usually what people are doing
they're protecting themselves they're
going into relationships saying I just
want someone rich or a man is protecting
his ego saying I just want someone who's
good at sex they don't really want to
get vulnerable with each other I wish
people could put that aside and put
their true values of vulnerability and
authenticity as a Forefront and then the
algorithm could find them somebody along
those lines rather than feeding their
ego it's an amazing breakdown of the
problem set what's the point of a
relationship
uh I would imagine the point of a
relationship is to kind of create a
shared meaning and purpose now
throughout history that's always been to
create a family like a shared meaning
and purpose but it doesn't have to be
primarily a family I've noticed in
couples that don't embark on a family
they find a shared meaning and purpose
in the form of a business or in the form
of shared extended families maybe their
brothers and sisters get on really well
maybe they have nieces and nephews or
whatever they create a shared meaning
and purpose Now relationships which lack
a shared meaning and purpose in the form
of either parenting or same values or
anything they tend to end up drifting
apart so the purpose of a relationship
is somebody that you can enjoy life with
whilst maintaining a shared purpose and
meaning that is aligned to one another I
have a growing thesis about why modern
dating is as problematic as it is what
is it about social media I had never
come to the conclusion that this is
access to too many people problems the
thing that I worry about is that what
the algorithms end up doing is they
hyper fragment us so that whether it's
uh only fans or pornography you're able
to pick a very narrow thing that you
want and you can indulge so deeply in
that thing that you lose sight of what
you're calling shared meaning and
purpose I always think of it as shared
narratives okay if we don't share an
understanding of what the purpose of a
relationship is then we're approaching
the problem with a distorted frame of
reference now my audience has heard me
talk a lot about frame of reference but
just to set the table for this
conversation so your frame of reference
is the distorted lens through which you
view the entire world right there's no
way for it not to be distorted without
getting into post-modernism while uh I
violently disagree with the
post-modernist interpretation of the
world I understand how they end up going
down that path because identifying what
is objectively true is very difficult
when we have a brain that has to
simplify the world and to simplify it it
basically creates a simulation right and
so we view the simulation and mistake it
for objective reality right so the
algorithms allow you to really
unintentionally get this hyper distorted
view of what the world is what women is
what a relationship is what sex is but
you don't realize it's happening right
so you don't realize that you're coming
to a conclusion about what a
relationship is it just happens right
and so you get the red pill right you
get the black pill right and you get
people that have a very unhelpful setup
in terms of if you're right and
relationships are about shared meaning
and purpose I think you and I would both
agree that the North Star when you think
about living your life well is human
flourishing yeah what is going to it's
not happiness I call it fulfillment but
if you think of it as what's going to
make me feel good in the widest variety
of situations possible that sort of gets
you in the right direction so so this
hyper fragmentation creation of a
distorted lens by which you value what
relationships are then lead people down
a road where they don't flourish right
so it's interesting that you you singled
in on this idea of shared meaning and
purpose so if we have access to too many
people how do we begin building shared
meaning and purpose when we get together
in relationships well the thing is
unfortunately we have to look at our
values and once we know what our values
are we have to start learning to reject
rather than glorifying the one
ingredient we like so what I mean by
that is say for example I meet a man who
just glorifies Beauty having a beautiful
partner it monopolizes his brain so what
will happen is he might meet a beautiful
woman and the beauty of her will allow
him to kind of submit to all of her
demands no matter how unreasonable they
are so she might be asking for more
money than he's got he's prepared to
give or she might be disrespectful she
might be cheating on him she might be
doing this they're forgetting all of
what the ingredients a healthy
relationship looks like and focusing on
an egotistical desire similarly for man
and has money a woman might ignore all
of the other red flags and just glorify
this one
extrinsic trait so what I would say is
if you want to start a healthy
relationship make sure you have a
balance of values what you really look
for in a relationship rather than what
you look for to boost your ego the
people that glorify one ingredient tend
to have lacked that at some stage in
their life or lacked access to that at
some stage so they glorify it and they
allow all other behaviors to be ignored
but then it eventually leads to a
divorce it eventually leads to
children's homes being broken down it
eventually leads to people being
crippled in the future when it comes to
starting relationships again it's so
destructive so I would say if you want a
healthy relationship have a look at your
values and make sure that they are
healthy and is the person you're
attaching to ticking all of the boxes or
are they just fulfilling an egotistical
desire that you have at the moment all
right I've heard you say that you
actually understand the logic of
arranged marriages yes and I if I
understood correctly because of this
idea of shared value yes what is the
logic of an arranged marriage
essentially what psychology has always
found is when two people come from
similar backgrounds they have a higher
rate of them becoming successful in a
relationship only because they
understand each other's norms and values
in a way that nobody else can if I
understand that you know let's say for
example silent treatment was given in my
house I know to give you silence you're
giving me silent treatment we'll get
back to normal I understand that
pathology in you or if I understand that
you know it could even be in a toxic way
if I understand sometimes some people
swear at each other then you get back
together we understand each other's
norms and values what arranged marriages
do is two parents will choose parents
who are similar to them so what will
happen is they have children who have
been raised relatively similar so those
two people when they get together tend
to have shared normative values so
there's an element of unspoken
understanding that doesn't exist when
two people in the real world just
meeting each other randomly especially
now that we have dating apps and I can
meet a man in Colombia and I am a
Colombian man can meet a woman in Ghana
it's so different so we're only going to
end up attaching on egotistical desires
either because we like it the way each
other's looks or we might get on with
the same music or might have the same
taste in movies but our actual
upbringings are very difficult and
different and norms and values are very
different so that's why I think I can
understand the logic behind arranged
marriages more now than ever before now
would you actually like would you like
your parents to arrange your marriage I
always rebelled against it but now I
wish I listened yeah sometimes I'm now
like oh maybe I should have listened
um only because there was an element of
you just assume you're losing your
autonomy but what you're actually doing
is you're
um trusting the process a little bit
more so I think I I could have probably
made it work more if I was when I was
younger but at the time because I felt
so controlled in other areas of my life
this is the one area where they gave me
some leeway so I was like you're not
controlling that part but had they been
more lenient in other areas I probably
would have allowed them more insight
into the partner I choose that's
interesting are you married no no so
it's not too late it's not too late but
I am committed oh so you're in a
relationship yeah yeah now how does he
feel about you saying I maybe I should
have I think I think the thing is
because I'm so traditional at heart he
understands where this comes from
obviously like we're lucky that we have
the same norms and values which is where
we really we got lucky
um but because I have a very traditional
mindset and I don't know how or why I
grew up in London I grew up in an
entirely English school I didn't have
any Muslim or Pakistani friends but for
some reason I I kind of found myself
orientated towards a traditional value
system and I really don't know where it
came from but I just internalized those
Traditional Values from a really young
age and so now I can always see things
from the lens of tradition rather than
in the lens of modernism and I don't
know why it's interesting were you
traditional as I assume the Traditional
Values came from your family and
religion you didn't know what it was I
naturally got attached to God from quite
a young age I don't know what it was I
started to feel like I couldn't trust
people so I started putting trust in God
and I think what happens then through
life I ended up looking at life through
the lens of religion and if it was
acceptable by religion then I probably
would question it less but if it was
going against religion I'd start
questioning the what's going on in
society and that led me to kind of
forming my own opinion so I'd question
things more particularly because
everything I was around was against what
I was being told told by God so I'd end
up questioning it questioning it and I
found my own kind of Rhythm with
psychology
very interesting okay so I want to
understand as you're taking on these
Traditional Values you're somebody who's
very aware of the soup of life that
you're in yeah for people that know your
content they've seen you talk a lot
about you you are of the culture like
you're from Dubai not from Dubai but you
live in Dubai now when you talk about
modern dating you're talking about it
from that perspective this is what it's
like this is what I see you coach in
this area so you definitely get the
space I would assume that's something
you've always been good at so I'm
curious as you were growing up
you're weighing sort of okay religion is
telling me this I see people doing the
opposite of that yeah were you looking
at that and going uh it doesn't seem to
make them happy was that the thing that
you checked it against I think so I
think what happened is I had a choice
especially now like living abroad away
from you know the prying eyes of parents
or anything I had a choice I could
either live my life according to the
rules of God or I could be like screw
that I'm doing the exact opposite of
what I've been told by God which is what
a lot of religious people do when they
finally find Freedom but when I looked
at doing the opposite of what God
prescribed I found that it looked like
Mayhem so for example I'm not allowed to
drink the opposite would be to get
really drunk but when I would see people
doing that it didn't look like something
I would enjoy or I'm not allowed to have
like sex and all this stuff and casuals
when I looked at people who were
enjoying in that I saw the negative
consequences of children a little like
and then having the abortion debate and
all these things and I just doing the
opposite doesn't look healthy
psychologically so I ended up going more
towards a tradition while staying very
alert and aware of what was going on in
the real world because all my friends do
indulge and I'm not judgmental so I
ended up being really good friends with
people who do but I just realized it
wasn't good for me personally
do you really think it's just you
personally or do you not think it's
pretty Universal I I would say it's
Universal but I don't want to like you
know put my views on it but for me I
just feel no rule and I know it's like a
lot of people find My Religion
misogynistic and they find it really
negative but there was no rule when I
look at the opposite did I think the
opposite is better for example we might
have as women have to cover I know I
don't but you know we're supposed to
cover when I look at what the opposite
looks like the opposite might be like
pornography women only fans that the
opposite doesn't look healthy to me I'm
sure there's a good middle ground but
when we live in quite a polarizing kind
of universe I know which side I'd rather
be on and so that's what made me always
every time I see the opposite and
because I live in a world now because of
technology I can literally see what the
opposite of religion looks like it looks
like only fans it looks like you know uh
through like lots of sexual premiscuity
it looks like getting drunk a lot I just
thought the opposite doesn't make sense
to me so it means that the restrictions
actually might be healthy for me
personally it's interesting so you drink
alcohol I do occasionally but not very
often it makes me feel like I'm
suppressing the urge to dance on a table
which is wonderful and I love that
feeling the reason I don't do it is
entirely yeah because it's brutal on the
body right and so I don't like the way
it makes me feel the next day and I
worry that it shortens My Lifestyle but
if it didn't like if it didn't make me
feel bad I would have no problem doing
it on the weekends and having fun I'm a
hyper disciplined goal-oriented person
so I'd never do it during the week
that's a whole different thing right so
I want to go back to religion so I am I
grow increasingly fascinated by the role
of religion why it lasted as long as it
did why it seemed to dip for a while and
seems to be coming back yeah my
hypothesis goes like this I think it's
something like
religion was humans are a storytelling
species that's what we do we we are all
about
simplifying the world
turning it into a meme that can be
passed on and religion is the ultimate
meme spreader right and so when
something works and to
um you're Islamic yeah okay so to use a
law that you guys put in place
um don't eat pork yeah now my gut
instinct is that the reason that became
true is because of um is it trigonosis I
think is the the thing if you undercook
Pork yeah and so you don't necessarily I
mean you don't have the the scientific
data to back up but you know something's
wrong yeah and so you're like Ah that's
not a great idea yeah and in an in
trying to explain it to people it ends
up becoming a part of a oral tradition
at first of course and then ultimately
gets written down and that becomes the
word of God yeah and so it is it is a
very useful tactic whether on purpose or
on accident I don't know you know how
this ends up forming but it is a very
useful thing to put it in the mouth of
God and say God says don't do this thing
to like legitimize it yeah exactly so
don't have kids out of wedlock why
because you they are less likely to
survive right so I think religion
ultimately is basically the the ultimate
way to get a very good idea to cross
over time and that if one were to write
the Bible today it would say things like
don't do an only Fan's account
you know make sure that you have values
as you go into your marriage like
whatever the things are that are going
to lead to human flourishing in that
moment yeah and the reason that these
ideas stay and cross through so much
time is because they're so useful right
and that's where this gets really
intriguing to me for people now so going
back to Shared narratives yeah religion
gay people shared narratives yes they
made they made it easier to make the
right choices because you didn't have to
reinvent the wheel so so subscribed for
you exactly I think a lot about culture
Stacks meaning I don't have to
ReDiscover electricity I'm born into a
world that has electricity I have to
ReDiscover the printing press or the
wheel and as we invent things like the
printing press and the internet now all
of a sudden ideas can travel fast right
my growing concern is that there's too
much velocity of information now we'll
set that aside but
religion was sort of that initial way to
get these ideas to
um for the smart ideas in culture to be
easily transmissible to the Next
Generation so that they could stand on
the shoulder of giants okay
um so to make them concise and clear so
people know what they're doing don't
have to think exactly yeah yeah just you
follow the word of God and things are
going to be better but now if you had to
abstract the values that people should
be imbuing as they come into a
relationship
instead of
necessarily saying because God said so
if you had to distill it to the values
that just make humans Thrive yeah what
values are those it would
um is my behavior going to lead to a
long-lasting stable connection between
the two of us now if we always you think
that's better so long-lasting
relationships why is that good um
because I think what happens with
long-lasting adversity they're more
likely to create a shared meaning and
purpose
um also what happens is you you end up
knowing that you start to learn to
reject things if I know I'm going to
stay with you forever and what will
happen is I reject maybe you know going
to clubs every night because I know who
I'm going to be home with I reject
dating multiple people at the same time
I reject sleeping around because I know
where I'm ending up but why are those
good things
um what I would say is the plethora of
options reduces our satisfaction in
anything anyway so the idea what
monogamy does is it allows you to focus
it doesn't mean good or bad but what I
mean by this is if I'm only dating you
and it's just you at least in that two
three months where I'm just focusing on
you I either learn that you're the love
of my life or I learn that you're
terrible me and I should never speak to
you again but if I dilute my experience
with you by also talking to Tom Dick and
Harry what will happen is I'm wasting
energy not realizing that you might be
really bad for me but I haven't noticed
because I'm also seeing Tom Dick and
Harry oh you might be amazing for me
again I haven't noticed so the realities
is it creates internal chaos whereas
internal consistency will allow us to
know what's good and bad for us and then
remove ourselves or enjoying ourselves
in what it is but unfortunately diluting
the experience means that we end up
being chaotic and we lose the ability to
create an identity because we're almost
spreading ourselves too thinly so I
think monogamy is a great way it's a
shortcut it will either tell you we're
going to work out or tell you we're
never going to work out but at least I
know through confining myself to that
space
okay so limit your options is limiting
your options is a necessary thing for
happiness
I I would say not necessarily limiting
but rejecting Alternatives in order to
like understand the difference um well
limiting your options would be like you
don't even
um pay attention to what the alternative
could be and you just stick to one what
you know rejecting the Alternatives is
knowing what you have knowing what the
alternative would look like and having
the strength to say I don't want it
okay but how can you know the
alternative you talked about in the
beginning we just see too many people
yeah and that back in the day it was
easier because you didn't see as many
people and you were pretty but you were
just pretty in your hometown and you
were going to marry somebody in your
hometown yeah so if too many people is
part of the problem set yeah it doesn't
seem like awareness of all the options
is necessary for thriving no because it
creates an illusion of options what will
happen is just like if you were to open
a Tinder account luckily you've probably
never had to do any online dating right
very fortunate you are incredibly
fortunate but what it looks like is you
go in there and you're overwhelmed so
what would happen is a person would go
on there and any single person can be
easily replaced by the next swipe in the
next swipe but so you end up applying
minimal investment to each person
everybody becomes disposable and then by
the end of it you don't want to spend
time with any of them because they've
all just replaced each other whereas
minimal kind of exposure means that I
have the time and social battery and
energy to invest in each person and then
figure out who's right for me but when
I'm just swiping and there's millions of
options I don't actually realize what's
good or bad for me you can reboot your
life your health even your career
anything you want all you need is
discipline I can teach you the tactics
that I learned while growing a billion
dollar business that will allow you to
see your goals through whether you want
better health stronger relationships a
more successful career any of that is
possible with the mindset and business
programs in Impact Theory University
join the thousands of students who have
already accomplished amazing things tap
now for a free trial and get started
today
so I still want to say it sounds like
you're saying that you do want to limit
your options but that doesn't feel right
to you why doesn't saying limiting us
yeah maybe I am saying it incorrectly
because I think when people hear
limiting the options they think settling
they do yeah and then is that not part
of what you're saying well you're saying
arranged marriage makes sense yeah I do
think do you know what it is what they
see as settling
um they they see us with a negative
connotation yeah they see settling right
um no because settling doesn't mean that
you are compromising on what you truly
want it's just that you're recognizing
what you truly want so settling implies
that you're not happy with what you've
got what I'm suggesting is you're so
happy with what you got that you reject
the Alternatives and you'll only become
so happy with what you got through being
able to reject the Alternatives
interesting so one I think arranged
marriages are a terrible idea but yeah
uh I don't know that this is true but
I've heard something about divorce rates
being lower
all right that's true yeah that's true
yeah okay basically one of those times
Axel pull that up I want to know if
that's really true if divorce rates in
arranged marriages really are lower yeah
then they should be there is something
okay the divorce rate for arranged
marriages is estimated at four percent
well the divorce rate where people
choose their Partners is estimated to be
close to 40 percent okay I don't know
that I believe yeah it's in somewhere
like India or somewhere where like the
arranged marriages are prominent but I
promise you it's lower but that could
also I want to preface that that could
also be because there's a stigma
Associated to divorce in cultures which
practice arranged marriages yes so it
could be a a could be mitigated by that
but on the whole I would like to think
that from what I remember arranged
marriages have the lowest levels of
divorce because people who engage in
arranged marriages don't do it with the
purpose of assuming that love is the
glue that keeps you together forever
okay so love isn't the glue that keeps
us to go whereas when you go in
well I I would say it's different for
most people but the I would imagine that
most people what I would imagine is the
glue is a duty to one another's
well-being and the function of the
marriage I would imagine that the glue
that keeps the relationship together is
even though we might have a rough year
around five years a rough 10 years even
but your well-being matters to me and my
well-being matters to you and so
therefore making sure that we engage in
a lifelong purpose of maintaining that
and the duty that we created to towards
one another when we made our vows is
more important than how we're feeling
right now it's a bit like if you signed
a you know a 10-year contract with a
basketball team if you're a basketball
player you might hate it some months you
might love it some seasons whatever it
is but you're committed to the purpose
and the duty that the contract suggested
this is very interesting okay so a duty
to one another's well-being why do you
disagree with arranged marriage sorry to
interrupt you but I don't know yeah yeah
why do why do you disagree with the
arranged marriages okay so you and I
share a lot of values if we were to lay
out what values we think people need to
have in order to have a successful
marriage I actually will be very
surprised if they are at all different
yeah I rebel against Authority so
violently you can't imagine one of my
primary values is autonomy so I cannot
live in a world where somebody gets to
tell me who to love I need to be free to
be a and it is UN for me it is
authoritarian to
um oppose something like that top down
okay did you
uh Bell against your parents Authority
when you're younger what was it about
the way that they relayed orders to you
that you didn't like they wanted me to
do something I didn't want to do my
parents were incredibly loving I have no
beef if you watch me you would have
thought I was uh brat you wouldn't have
thought oh his parents were really mean
or anything yeah yep I just don't do
well with that which we could easily
derail into why I think from an
evolutionary standpoint the tribe needs
some people like me they need some
people like you my wife like they need
all of it
um I just had a conversation yesterday
with Gad sad and he was saying oh maybe
I shouldn't be this way and I was like
actually I think it's good that the
tribe has your style of communication
which can be very aggressive very
satirical but it's good that we have
that perspective so I don't think as a
tribe we want uniformity we want the
only way to truly narrow in on what is
true is to get a bunch of different
perspectives make sure everybody can
speak up so I think it's probably good
that the tribe has people like me that
just cannot deal with authority yeah
um but that's why I don't like arranged
marriages it doesn't necessarily mean
that arranged marriages won't yield more
human flourishing and so if if I had
time to really review the data I may
walk away going hey guys look I wouldn't
want to do it yeah but the data's in
yeah and arranged marriages just work
better usually from a psychological
perspective people who reject Authority
um growing up they didn't trust their
parents Authority either because they
didn't have the same values or because
they didn't like the method in which
they relayed it so they end up losing
trust for their parents Authority and
then that just extends through life they
just whereas people who really trust and
respect their parents Authority end up
accepting Authority later on I think
we're blank slates
um no no I don't think so I think a lot
of it is blank snakes but I do think we
have a natural Temperance percentage I
would say that we are 30 genetics and 70
two percent environment interesting what
would you say 50 50 is what science
science says yeah but I would say that
your environment is pretty much
everything I personally think that my
personality wait wait can you just say
your environment is pretty much
everything
um well it's more so than your
temperament because I believe that
personally the traits I hold if I wasn't
a woman and if I wasn't raised in the
right environment if I didn't have the
parents I did I would very much be a
criminal personality it's very cool
really I'm fearless I'm shocked by that
yeah I'm absolutely Fearless I have no
fear what would that lead you to
criminality because if I was grown up in
an environment where money was scarce
and poverty was real and role models
were criminal I definitely would indulge
in it I don't have a fear of I don't
have a fear of repercussions and it's
such a strange thing for somebody who
believes in God but I naturally do not
have a fear like I believe in God but I
don't have a fear of repercussions so
naturally if I see a police officer and
if they annoy me I'll say what I need to
say now if I was a man with that
mentality and if I was somebody who was
struggling for my money with that
personality there's no way I'd still be
on the streets I'd be in prison or at
least rehab
okay so going back to arranged marriage
the value set yeah okay so we understand
why I don't like arranged marriage but
at the same time human flourishing is my
North Star and I don't think there's
anything in life that will give you more
um of the things that I would ballpark
to human flourishing than a healthy
romantic partnership which that word's
very important to me for people dealing
with the modern dating world I would
just say do not see your significant
other as an adversary you need to be
looking for a partner yeah so life has
taught me there's a reason I've been
married for 21 years life has taught me
that it's worth the investment but the I
actually find so I think you're picking
up on my reaction as if I don't agree
with you no I I know because I've seen
you in interviews before you challenge
the people that you still kind of
fundamentally agree with you just want
to make sure you understood them
correctly correct yeah so Duty also I I
think people are going to have a hard
time with some of the words you're using
but what I like about you is you're
unafraid to take your stance so duty to
one another's well-being and I will when
I got married I tattooed four words on
my arm as a reminder to me what this was
all about to to make it work well yeah
uh and they were love passion commitment
and respect and commitment was I I was
very aware that men are valued for their
ability to acquire resources and women
are valued for their beauty and so I was
like oh as my value goes up in a
traditional sense my wife's will go down
in a traditional sense and there's a
whole other thing to life though which
is sharing a life with somebody right
now in in that very small set of words
hides a lot
um but I wanted Lisa to know you know
never have to worry about me trading you
in for an upgraded model right the
reason you don't have to worry about me
trading you in for an upgraded model is
not because I think you're the most
beautiful woman in the world I don't
think you're the most beautiful woman in
the world today I'm not going to think
you're the most beautiful woman in the
world when you're 90. so I want you to
understand I'm committed to you yeah
because
you make my life better and I want to
share this life with you and I'm not the
best looking guy in the world and I'm
not going to be the richest guy in the
world I certainly wasn't the richest guy
when we met I will tell you that so um
that was important to me that we both
focus on that idea that we have a duty
to one another's well-being yeah and
like as somebody that hates Authority
yeah I get why people don't want to
submit to that all right
forgive me yeah but the other day I was
talking to somebody about
I'm not religious yeah but I want
something to kneel before right and well
that's a that's a really interesting
desire to have for somebody who's not
religious I think every human being has
that yeah and I think that people don't
acknowledge that yeah this is part of
how people spiral out of control because
we don't have shared narratives anymore
and some people don't understand how to
navigate life uh thankfully I read a
book called The Power of myth by Joseph
Campbell I highly recommend it okay uh
and so I realized oh yeah I do want to
kneel before something and one of the
things that I kneel before is my
marriage not my wife my marriage I love
that and so that idea of each of us are
going to kneel before this thing that is
greater than either of us individually
and we are going to protect it fiercely
um because we have a duty to one
another's well-being why not because God
told us to but because that's what leads
to human flourishing yeah which is why I
think people say God tells you to yeah I
mean the thing is I think you're very
true everybody has a need and I think
it's an involved need we all have a need
to worship now the problem is because
we've got no sense of God anymore we've
replaced a need to worship with either
we're going to worship celebrities or
we're going to worship like influences
or we're going to start worshiping
ourselves and our own egotistical
desires so that's why I think it's
always good to submit to something I
personally submit to God but it could
also be your marriage it could be also
your parents for some people it could be
whatever it is but having nothing to
submit to means that you will definitely
submit to your own desires I think
people need to be very careful what they
choose to submit to I think yeah they do
they they definitely need to be very
careful because the thing is whether we
like it or not we submit to the law the
systems of the law and the laws that we
live in now as we even in our short
period of being alive we've seen the
laws change drastically now the reason
why I don't recommend submitting
completely to a cultural Society or the
norms and values of a culture is this so
changing so rapidly so it leads to a
fragile identity whereas what I like
about religion is it creates a stable
identity throughout the years you'll
never have to say what does God think
about this you know whereas the laws and
system what could have been seen as
offensive now would have been seen as
normal practice 20 years ago I just
wonder what that does to people's
identity knowing that what they once
believed in now is the worst thing on
the planet and then it might be cool
again and then it might be all I don't
know if it creates an internal dialogue
that is steady
so that's why I why I recommend it now
you migrated from submit to Neil or
sorry from Neil to submit yeah and so do
you I see a pretty radical difference
between the difference uh so I submit to
the law but I don't kneel before the law
and if the law were to get deranged
which I have extreme fears about right
now yeah uh I would
oppose it right
whereas my marriage
uh there are ways that it could become
dysfunctional to the point where I would
exit my marriage so I'm not somebody who
thinks no matter what yeah
um but I I when I say that I kneel
before my marriage it is entirely my
responsibility to make sure that it does
not devolve to that okay so taking it
back to the law
um
I kneel before
the ideals that
oh God before I make this statement I I
was going to say I kneel before the
ideals the ideals that this country was
founded on yeah I'd need to educate
myself more deeply on that I kneel
before the ideals I think this country
was founded upon that's probably uh the
I don't know if I'm afraid but I'm sure
there's something offensive in the uh
yes sir I don't know yeah
um but anyway I draw a distinction
between the law and the ideals that
should be aimed at human thriving I I
get what you mean by the difference
between kneeling and submitting one
sounds more voluntary the other one
sounds like it is what it is like it's
more involuntary so I understand what
you probably mean but when you say
kneeling and submitting they're not
synonymous yeah I get what you mean okay
so going back to the values that make a
relationship work
um so the four things that I I think
originally I was going to get like nine
tattoos the tattoo artist was like the
writing will be too small so it was an
interesting exercise to force me to boil
it down to those four yeah um if you had
to give people three to five yeah things
values like super succinct that are
going to allow them to have that
longevity yeah what would those be I
would say the first is honesty even if
it hurts and the reason why I think
Honesty is such an important one is it
even when it's something like if my
partner says sorry you've gained weight
yeah as much as I might not like that or
you know your makeup doesn't look nice
as much as I don't like that what it
does is it redirects me into a way that
will keep us connected one of the
reasons why so many people end up having
Affairs is they have this kind of unmet
need but a fear of telling the truth to
their partner because their partner is
so fragile and easily offended so there
might be a man that feels like his wife
has let go and doesn't want to tell her
but then will Outsource sexual desire
elsewhere it might be a woman that feels
like a man is not you know
aggressive enough physically when
they're making love and whatever so she
ends up never saying it to him and then
Outsourcing it elsewhere and so I would
say honesty is important but honestly
without brutality what happens is people
who suppress it is that they don't say
the truth but when they get into a fight
they say the truth but with Venom they
say this is why you're so and this
is why they say it negatively so you
want honesty without brutality honesty
with whilst you're on a good terms
rather than just doing a fight so I
think Honesty is a really important one
about what your needs are another thing
is being not doing anything behind your
partner's back that you wouldn't do in
front of their face and there's a what I
mean by that is even if that means you
you call that Integrity yeah I would say
so Integrity because even if let's say
for example
he's texting a girl or I'm texting a boy
if that's something I would do in front
of him say I'm just messaging this
person bro I'm just talking to this
person there's nothing wrong with that
but where you would do it the same
behind their back as you would in front
of them that Integrity is really
important important you don't become a
different person when they leave because
the people who do that end up having two
parallel lives they live completely
different lives and I think it all kind
of boils down to honesty really I would
say if anything I would just say honesty
is a really important one because it
enables all the other features of a good
connection to thrive if I'm honest with
you about what I like in terms of
emotional intimacy we create emotional
intimacy if I'm honest what I like in
terms of physical intimacy we create
that if I'm honest about what makes me
less attractive to you we create good
attraction so I just say that honesty is
a really important one would you add
anything else to that one so we've got
honesty Integrity yeah for so mine are
the four yeah I have tattooed on myself
what does respect look like to because I
know that's something that men always
talk a lot about but in literal terms
what would respect look like from a
man's perspective so respect is
is uh one of the reasons I chose that is
a lot of things go into that so for me
being honest with somebody is how you
show them respect if if I'm lying to you
I am not respecting you if I lack
Integrity I'm not respecting you yeah
um the easiest way for me to explain
respect though would be my wife went
from a traditional housewife and I loved
it because she took care of everything
it was amazing in fact at some point we
should talk about what it was like for
the two of us to research and interview
you on the same day because it was like
had us asking each other questions yeah
which is really actually really fun I
really wish more people would do things
like that they should watch your
episodes and then talk to each other
um so
that is when you have the respect of
um I know who
my wife wants to become because she
wanted to go from housewife to
entrepreneur right and it that was
deeply uncomfortable for me and I had to
mourn the loss of my traditional wife
but I needed to respect that she wanted
to become something else and so the
thing that occurred to me as we were
going through this was
I believe I mean going back you really
put great words around it that I have a
duty to my wife's well-being yeah and so
I the words that kept occurring to me
were I want you to be the best version
of yourself and so I would never want to
stop you from becoming who you want to
be and so she was very graceful in
letting me mourn that I was losing
something yeah and then I showed her the
respect to
help her not only give her the space but
to help her become the person that she
wants to become and and not just be a
cheerleader but literally be a Savage in
the fight for what she wants
um so there's a lot that goes into that
what did you miss about her going from
traditional Housewives to successful
entrepreneur man
because she mentioned today that she was
watching one of my videos and me I talk
a lot about how men um I know it sounds
so ridiculous but they just love a meal
from their wife it doesn't even have to
be home cooked just her plating it or
her knowing what he likes and forget why
that matters to guys I don't know if
that's an evolutionary thing if it's
something that's in them
um and but I also think that because
they're not so verbal acts of service
means a lot to them because they don't
know how to express it and eat sometimes
so somebody understanding their needs
and predicting them before they have to
say it but that's why yeah for me now
this is one where I'm not confident
enough that this is universal explain to
me um
the having somebody and having somebody
understand me so well yeah that they can
anticipate my needs yeah and that I'm so
important to them that they want to make
that need go away before
um I have to deal with it yeah but
there's a reason for that now this
there's a lot of tension around what I'm
about to say between my wife and I yeah
this is so fascinating to me because
this is I think my wife's fundamental
misunderstanding of the nature of a man
right and I I am a Savage for my wife
yeah everything I do I do for my wife
yeah I work as hard as I work for my
wife yeah now here's the problem my wife
wishes I wouldn't work that hard yeah
what do you do with that so now my wife
is crying out for me please work less
you say you do this for me yeah but I
need you to work less and what I'm
saying to her is I need to be
appreciated for how hard I'm working
which is what you show me when you
recognize my needs and make them go away
I then feel like being a Savage for you
is being rewarded it's being
acknowledged it's being appreciated
appreciation is the right word and
ladies I'm telling you right now if you
appreciate your man and make him feel
powerful that's it it's a wrap yeah
nothing else like which is why I always
say that successful men have it the
hardest I'm not talking about you I
think praise be to God you have a very
beautiful marriage but um generally
speaking a successful man I find have
the hardest time when it comes to being
married and it's because they create a
life that it almost enables a lazy woman
yeah I mean that hasn't happened for you
she's a absolute you know Legend in her
field but the majority of very
successful CEOs happen to have wives who
then have nannies cook chefs so on and
so forth and what happens is that she
doesn't have to rely on any instinct to
predict her partner's needs because it's
all taken care of it's all kind of uh
Outsource but he still craves female
attention he craves his wife loving him
he craves his wife saying oh baby your
shirt is ironed or a baby your lunch is
packed I I bought those stupid crisps
that you love it seems so small and
effortless yet he doesn't get that
whilst he's building an empire to help
create a life that she loves she sees it
as childish to kind of do that for him
and we label what a man needs as
childish you can do it yourself but we
can do ourselves we can pay our own
bills now but we still love it when a
man does it so I think that's where I
say the narcissism is coming through
feminism has taught women that catering
and appreciating and showing love for
your man is babying him and he should be
a grown-up and he should do it himself
but then what is the how else does he
feel loved how else is he going to get
it the only other way to get it is other
sexually and then that is replaceable
any girl can have sex with you but how
many girls will know what you want in
your sandwich and if that's not your
wife then who's it going to be so they
start to Outsource affection and they
end up they end up majority of the times
with gold diggers and they end up with
escorts who they fall in love with I've
met so many successful intelligent men
fall absolutely head over heels in love
with escorts because you've got to
remember the market of an escort or a
webcam she deals with men with low
self-esteem every day every single day
so she knows all she has to do is take
an interest in him for five minutes and
he's putty in your hands so she will say
oh I got you a jam sandwich I know you
love it and he will be like I'm in love
she knows what she's doing
so they end up falling into such a bad
pattern because they're so starved of
appreciation so that's why I try and
encourage women to prevent them going
down that route
I think that's very wise and it is
hilarious to me how easy it is to
manipulate men have you ever seen any
side of that with working with
successful men do you have a CEO or do
they not kind of tell each other what
they do on the side yeah guys
about that kind of thing like what makes
you putty in somebody's hands I mean you
can sort of pick it up with some guys
but
um no you don't see it as much maybe
because I live in Dubai so I see the
average 70 or 60 year old man walking
around with a 24 year old you know a
model and then you see what's happened
like you see how he's got there but what
would have happened is years of feeling
neglected or rejected now somebody just
makes them feel alive although it's
transactional they're willing to pay
that cost just to get that feeling right
yeah yeah I mean it is utterly
fascinating like people really need to
understand men and women this is one of
the things that I found very interesting
about you and I have a feeling that
there's going to be
a lot of
um
response I don't know what the right
word is rebound effect from how hard
like whatever fourth wave feminism has
gone yeah uh and then the other side
where women go oh wait to get a man and
to keep him happy these are all the
things that I have to do yeah and
because I think there's so much
evolutionary pressure at our backs to
deliver in that way I think and look
everything is a cycle and so
um if we go now into a sort of deeply
traditional part of the cycle
um there'll be a rebound against that
later down the road and this stuff will
just cycle do you think that's where the
red pill came in is it they found a
space from that yeah no the red pill I
think is a response to the velocity of
information uh people feeling very
rejected the algorithm starting to feed
you somebody who's like you know
these women uh this is the truth look
how they manipulate you wake up like and
now you see the truth of it and have
painted women as adversaries yeah that's
a real mistake real huge because people
are not thinking about what the they
they've never defined for themselves
what's their North Star your North Star
should be human flourishing yeah I I'm a
firm believer that
um
met this is on average of course gay
people exist and they are capable of
wonderful Lives full of love and joy but
from an evolutionary standpoint the male
female dichotomy in a relationship makes
a lot of sense yeah and you really do
from a procreation standpoint you make a
whole and so together you're able to do
something that you weren't able to do
apart yeah
um do you think that applies to
Parenting as well does what having the
dichotomy of a male and female oh for
sure for sure in terms of raising well
balanced yeah I think so as well I know
that might be sound as controversial but
it's just uh it's a fact of life I think
children end up benefiting from that
masculine and feminine Dynamic and
unfortunately we've made it like it's a
sin to suggest how in sync those two
energies should be because people who
are trying to pit men and women against
each other just get more views and they
get more kind of um accoladed on the
internet so unfortunately we're going
drifting down that path but does your
does does your audience and your realm
they all you value marriage and value
the connection I don't know it's a good
question so one of the exercises that
I'm trying to go on now is really
defining like what the the through line
of the show is for people so they can
understand for me it's always been
self-evidently empowerment yeah but the
number of things that that will go
through so so what we end up doing is
our audiences around topics and they're
totally separate yeah and so if I do an
episode on finance I can predict how
it's going to do if I do an episode on
relationships I can predict how it's
going to do and it's not the same people
right and so what I really want people
to understand is this is about
empowering you to live life well yeah
and there is one through line through
every person that I bring on the show
um but no the people that would come to
me for relationships are very different
than the people that would come to me
for finance et cetera et cetera
um so I don't I honestly don't know how
they feel how did you balance a healthy
relationship about being so unbelievably
successful because usually one gives
well it's the other one kind of suffers
but how did you manage that I haven't
seen that very often so I'm very
impressed by it so one my number one
priority is my marriage yeah and so Lisa
and I talk about that but as I was just
saying she wishes I worked less she
would gladly trade in some percentage of
our success uh eat for that yeah and so
we've really had to communicate
endlessly and so communication is
something we're extraordinarily good at
and then we know what each other's good
at and she will feel disconnected before
me and so I have said okay cool you're
empowered if you feel disconnected I
will listen to you right and so we won't
wait for me to feel disconnected because
that will take way too long and you'll
really be upset by that point so speak
up when you say something I will
immediately adjust my behavior so for
instance Quest ended up coming into
existence because I was so unhappy at
the company we were running before that
and she said this is now damaging our
marriage you need to do something right
and so that something was to quit long
story that ends up becoming Quest and
ends up being amazing but that was
really born out of my wife saying okay
this is damaging the marriage and me
saying hey I said if you ever said it
that I would make immediate change so
that's really important like you have to
know how did you learn that skill so
at 14 I started having a recurring
nightmare that I was in a Loveless
marriage at 14. I'd never been in a
relationship Lisa's the only person I've
ever said I love you too in a romantic
way stop really yes so now at 18 my dad
leaves and says he's been unhappy for 10
years right so now you can track it back
yeah oh he's been in happy since I
was eight yeah and so there was
something that I was picking up on that
I never could have explained to you
right I was young first of all yeah but
I'm recurring that your energies of
children they pick up on their parents
happiness and that it translates into
like I I had no conscious awareness of
it whatsoever so anyway one I'm already
I'm deeply self-aware and I'm empathetic
uh and so I have this recurring
nightmare so I make a promise to myself
I I'm okay never getting married I'm not
okay being with somebody that I actually
don't like that much and so I'm a very
specific flavor and so I learned very
quickly that I would have to pretend to
be something I wasn't around people and
so there's no mistake that Lisa happened
not long after I said I'm going to start
aggressively being myself and if people
don't like it I don't give a right
and so but coupled with I won't be in a
Loveless marriage it takes work and I
read Cosmopolitan a lot so here my mom
told me the best piece of advice I ever
got about women because this shook my
entire worldview my entire world view
fell apart it did this was so foreign to
me she said uh almost as a throwaway
comment you know for women to have an
orgasm they have to trust you and I was
like
what I just need a location like that
was so trust like what could that
possibly have to do with an orgasm yeah
and so that sent me on a very detailed
quest to figure out okay women think
differently than I do
but you know what one thing I would say
is I know women I completely agree with
your mom's statement but we're almost
taught that men can disconnect
emotionally from sex I really disagree
with that because if you get a man to
have sex with a woman who looks like
she's not enjoying it and looks like
she's in pain or looks like she'd rather
not be there his fulfillment is minimal
there's nothing there whereas when he
would rather take a less attractive
woman who looks like she's having the
time of her life and looks like she
adores him over an attractive woman who
looks like she can't stand him so there
is something psychological in it for men
as well if it was just a human need and
every hole is a goal they wouldn't read
a woman's expression so deeply I know
men that have become impotent because
their wife has expressed such disgust
when they've tried to be sexually active
with her and they've literally lost
their ability to erect so I do think
it's equally psychological I just think
men don't realize it's psychological
because they're so usually so uh erect
and ready to roll but I do think it
signals where a psychological signals
that determines their sexual pleasure
that is would you agree true than you
know is that true because it's just what
I've keep noticing I will say that you
you're interpreting that through the
mind of a woman yes and so I will say go
ahead there uh for a guy yeah
um neutral to positive fantastic now if
if the person is really into you that's
going to be way more way more way more
fun but she's really not into you I
couldn't do it yeah there's no
University it would activate the
predatory fear in a man like you never
want to be feeling like a rapist so I
would imagine if she's not into that
that unfortunately much to my dismay
will not be Universal no Universal that
is horrifying to me yeah but uh do you
think that's pornography related or do
you think no they predates pornography
yeah oh God so here we're now in
territory I have not looked at the
literature
but when you think about what was war
historically it was the you had excess
men in the population who did not have
access to women there was a massive
Ginny coefficient uh meaning there was a
huge discrepancy between the men that
had and the men that did not have so
there's a hypothesis that Vikings were
um a a society in which one man would
monopolize as many women so you had a
lot of guys that were like well how do I
get a woman you go to war and there was
some recent
thing where like a tribe that's still
alive where they were like
um
when asked why do you go to war they
said oh for women okay and they were
like what what other reason would you
ever go to like they were so you can
understand it yeah oh wow and so that's
horrifying yeah no they're very sad
there's even like evidence of a
particular fly that holds down the wings
of the female fly inseminates and runs
away like rape is it's in the animal
kingdom as well doesn't justify it but
it does exist but I just wonder like um
is the Advent of porn reducing the
desire to array because you're kind of
getting access to it or does it kind of
glorify it but I don't know I I don't
watch and so I don't know but I'm
wanding from a man's perspective is it
cathartic and you kind of get rid of
that that's not my Kinks yeah that one I
wouldn't be able to speak to yeah but um
my gut instinct is porn does sedate
right and that whatever it's not like it
will keep ratcheting up ratcheting up
ratcheting up until you go out and do
something I have a feeling I've heard
you talk about serial killers being
addicted to porn I have a feeling that
that's correlation and absolutely not
causation you have somebody who's just
they are broken empathy perspective and
so the their response to porn would be
very difficult complete objectification
this person is an inanimate object and
that's why it plays out in their
sadistic sex where Ted Bundy who I have
read about because he unfortunately
lived where I grew up no way yeah so uh
so I learned quite a bit about him and
so that feels more like somebody a thing
in their brain is broken I do I do agree
in that sense because in order to form
an addiction to pornography there has to
be a level of emptiness and uh
Brokenness in their soul or to lead to
that escapism and then coupled and then
it might lead going to other poor
behaviors so don't think it's
necessarily A Cause I think it's a pit
stop on the destiny of becoming
something evil unfortunately but know
that uh becoming evil yes probably there
probably is a path but this is where I
will say if we're 50
um hardwired yeah and 50 percent
the environment that man I don't think
you become Hitler or Ted Bundy unless
the part of the 50 that's hardwired is
broken yeah there must be something
prenatal in there yeah because I like as
somebody who's wired for empathy like I
just can't fathom yeah I can't fathom
um do you think empathy is the
ingredient that's allowed you to be so
monogamous and not be tempted okay so
this I've thought a lot about uh no I
don't think that's the thing because if
you said to me hey she'll never find out
yeah never ever no pain yeah no way she
is never gonna know like this is
guaranteed by God not gonna happen
doable in this day and age yes would you
cheat hell no okay then why not yeah I
think there's two reasons one I am my
brain literally if you were to do a
biopsy of my brain I have a feeling you
would find that I have massive amounts
of receptors for vasopressin and oxygen
tosin the the sense of intense bonding I
get with my wife is crazy and so
I feel bad because that means I just
have a leg up like part of why I've been
able to I agree I don't feel like it's
any virtue in me I think it's something
just in me that makes it impossible for
me to
um be simultaneously with two people I
don't think it's because I'm virtuous or
moralistic I think I just can't be with
I can't get pleasure from two people
simultaneously well now we're asking a
different question because if my wife
was like no no be so hot have sex with
someone okay a word so uh I'll see you
yeah okay then that is very different
but I would never want to be in a
relationship with two people right okay
but men really do have a pull for
um novel sexual encounters and
especially a novel sexual encounter with
a woman who finds me attractive that
would be rad right Super Rad yeah the
only reason I don't do that is because
my marriage is my highest priority
because that gives me way more than a
bunch of Novel sexual experiences would
be me but when I decided to propose to
Lisa one of I literally made a pros and
cons list and one of the cons was I'll
never sleep with another woman again and
am I okay with that that was not an easy
like yeah I'm okay with that I was like
oh and you're super young yeah yeah so
that that's the height of your
testosterone that was a sacrifice and so
and that's part of why our marriage has
lasted because I've thought a lot about
what will make this marriage worth that
kind of sacrifice so can I ask like a
lot of women come to me and I'm always a
little bit done and I've asked my
partner this as well and he hasn't
really given me much but some women will
come to me and say to me like I've been
my husband just doesn't crave me anymore
he just doesn't want to sleep with me I
think it's me like I know all I ever see
on movies and stuff is how the man
always wants to have sex but really I'm
the one that's always initiating and I'm
the one that has to do it and I don't
know what it is why my husband just
won't initiate or won't want to be with
me sexually what do you think I always
say that maybe you're not nurturing
other needs of his outside of the sexual
relationship so I always wonder I ask
have you cooked them recently have you
that's therefore play have you cooked
for him have you made sure that his you
know maybe his clothes are ready or
whatever it is time he thought about his
life before he has to think about it
outside of the bedroom that's usually my
answer but I could be wrong so I was
just wondering you'd also be right I
could be like that that's me is a huge
part of it yeah
um also feeling emotionally connected
yeah and I I really really believe that
men can be
of course we're complicated and all of
that and the the wonderment of being in
a long-lasting marriage is to go Way
Beyond the two things I'm about to say
yeah but honestly honestly if you don't
get these two things right you are dust
right you have to appreciate him and all
the things that he does like for real
for real and you need to exude that yeah
if you exude appreciation you work so
hard thank you for everything you do you
make all these sacrifices you do for the
family because I can pretty much
guarantee you that at least in the
beginning he did that and the only
reason he may no longer work with that
in his mind is because you made him feel
unappreciated yeah and so if you
appreciate him for that huge
make him feel powerful right make him
feel powerful and what about if he's not
powerful
okay so now one of my questions I wrote
down how do you tell your wife that
she's gotten fat uh so how do you tell
your husband he's gotten weak yeah I
guess here's the thing well um I think
with both whether you tell your wife
she's gotten fat or when you tell your
husband he's weak instead of
highlighting she's fat or he's weak you
highlight the time where they were the
opposite and you might say something
like
um do you remember the days we used to
play rugby oh it was so you just came
across so powerful I you should get back
into that you I loved seeing you like
that or it could be a thing like oh babe
do you remember you in that red dress
and stuff that day we met and stuff oh
you looked amazing you looked amazing it
doesn't even have to be I want you back
to that because some women are so
hypersensitive but the problem is when
they don't tell her they allow her to
become a woman they're no longer
attracted to and you have to tell your
wife and I know I get a lot of like
backlash because I get told I'm fat
shaming but here's the thing in my
experience when you gain a lot of weight
you start not liking yourself and when
you don't like yourself you don't want
to have sex with people you don't want
your husband to see you naked you don't
want him to touch you so you end up just
being okay with having very minimal
physical contact and then you drift
apart whereas when you get when you keep
on top of yourself you're looking
forward to physically connecting so I
think it's really important to keep on
top of your body for a while so married
like I know these kids I know it's
difficult but life is difficult you just
have to eat less if you can't work out
at least eat less yeah or so eating less
yes unfortunately is a reality but also
what you eat is extraordinarily
important are you careful with what you
I'm psychotic about this so going back
to part of the reason I want to do the
show is to get people to understand you
are having a biological experience you
must get sleep sunlight your diet needs
to be right yeah and so look the reality
is
men and women alike you need to be
attractive you you need to do things to
be attractive to your spouse you can
never neglect that you can't take it for
granted and by the way so the thing I
will add to what you said is what I do
is when my wife does something that I
want more of I lavish her with praise
when she does it and I learned very
early what does she do that makes you oh
my God that list is so long
um but it could be
um
she wears something she knows I love and
so I'm like oh man thank you I love
those pads so much oh my God you know
how much I love those right so rather
than when she wears a shirt I don't like
I'm not like uh I hate that shirt no she
asked me if I liked it I would tell her
no yes uh to your point about honesty
but so the the list of things that my
wife does for me that I want more of is
is very long she's very thoughtful and
very just today she set out uh I forgot
to take chicken out for myself and I had
mentioned the other day that I wanted uh
more avocado in my life and so today
there was a little sticky note with
chicken thawing for me and an avocado
that says I took this out for you yeah
um and so yeah I would encourage that
behavior but but that's easy stuff the
hard stuff is for women physicality yeah
and so
um with that like let's say that she's
my wife's always been so on top of her
physique but one thing that that I do is
I'm like
it let's say it's she just had her 44th
birthday yeah
and I'm like hear me when I say woman
you're so hot
at 44. most people don't get a woman
that's attractive at 20. and so I want
to thank you you you didn't have to do
that and most people don't and I know
that it's mostly for yourself yeah but I
want I really appreciate it like it
really means a lot to me because I know
one day we all turn to a bag of wrinkles
and so I've always reminded myself to
appreciate your Youth and beauty while I
have it yeah and the fact that you've
worked so hard to extend that like just
objectively hot and attractive yeah as
long as you have like I'm super grateful
and I even encourage women to be
grateful when their partner is faithful
and because the thing is a lot of women
will say but that's a given we're
married of course he's supposed to be
faithful but unfortunately that's not
enough course anymore it's not even if
it is yeah it is not wise yeah to take
it for granted no it's not it's never
wise in fact now you have something
that's easy that you can point to all
the time and like cherish your partner
for that and be like wow it for instance
in fact I'm going to say this to my wife
later thank you
uh literally if I open my wife's phone
yeah and there was a file that said dick
pics and it was four terabytes yeah I'd
be like wow that's crazy I wonder how
four terabytes of dick pics got I
wouldn't even think to be weird about it
yeah because she makes me feel yeah like
I'm the center of her universe and
because I feel that in my bones it's not
just a thing she says like I feel it in
all the weird little small ways that a
person can feel it I feel it and so what
I'm really thanking her for thank you
for making me feel safe yeah emotionally
yeah like you make me feel emotionally
safe and that is an awesome feeling yes
an amazing feeling it allows you to then
go on to do bigger and better things
outside of the relationship so many
people are stunted because their partner
doesn't make them feel safe they can't
progress at work they can't fulfill
their potential in the gym they just
can't fulfill their relationship
potential in other relationships because
they're stunted but once your partner
makes you feel safe and secure you can
almost go out and conquer the world as
you guys literally have gone out and
done
I read a quote once and said the people
that take the biggest risks have the
most stable home life now things like
that so a lot of people have just heard
me say that but what I did when I heard
that was I went home and I said babe I
just heard this fact and it really made
me think of us that the people that have
the most stable home life take the
biggest risks thank you because this is
when she was still a housewife thank you
for doing what you do and allowing me to
go take these big risks I mean at one
point when Quest was a huge question
mark and nobody knew if it was going to
work she let us put our house up as
collateral like that's real and so
because both of us will routinely say in
our darkest moments as long as I have
for me it's her yeah as long as I have
Lisa everything else can go wrong and
I'm good and I really mean that and
because I feel that it really does let
me take these big chances but going back
to what started all this you you need to
take the time to go thank your spouse
for those things to not take those
things for granted to really reward them
for Behavior you don't want and now if I
may like the comments on fire with rage
and anger you have to then punish the
things that you don't want how would
that what would that look like you tell
me okay or tell me that I'm crazy yeah
do you know what I would say it's um
punishments and things that you don't
like maybe I've never really perfected
this what ends up happening in my
personal experience when I punish what I
don't like I end up creating a new wound
because I'm so tactless with it I'm so
like oh and I can't get mean and I can
get brutal do you think it's the nature
of punishment or is it the delivery it's
my insecurity that is so projected into
what I'm saying that I I it doesn't
become a fruitful conversation so what
would be something I don't like turns
into I'm going to put the relationship
on the line now and I'm going to wound
you because I feel wounded in this
moment and it's something I've gotten
better at over the years but through the
partner being so secure they kind of
walk your hand through it but it's not
something I I've ever perfected so I
don't if I could learn from you how
would you punish what you don't like
without causing any additional wounds
yeah so uh this is one that is you have
to be
extremely careful with so rule number
one if you want to quote unquote punish
because I'm known for using language
it's meant to grab people's attention
it's not like I'm being cruel or mean
because if you do that you are done
so
number one if you want to punish a
behavior you have to have made so many
deposits made them feel so loved and so
secure that when you say hey when you do
that thing I don't like that yeah and so
let's just say that your partner
um likes to drink and you don't want
them to drink anymore this is not a
problem Lisa and I had delicious yeah
um I would say hey it's your life yeah
you have to do you the last thing I want
is to be your parent I'm not your parent
I'm your spouse but when you're doing
that thing I'm not going to be around
you right so by all means do it but just
know once you've sobered up come back
we'll hang out yeah but when your spouse
cherishes quality time yeah now all of a
sudden it's like oh when I go do this
thing they have set a clear boundary
they're not mean they weren't cruel
they're not saying I'm a bad person for
doing it they're just saying I don't
like it and I don't want to be around it
and so now it's my choice I can go do it
as much as I want but they've been very
clear right now I I am doing that
because I know you want time with me
right and so it is a punishment right
but I'm not being a dick I'm not being
cruel and I'm not making it up I really
don't like it I really don't want to be
around you you set your boundary rather
than like it's not literal I'm punishing
is it more just I'm setting a boundary
it is punishment it's just that
boundaries are a way to
um
create a penalty for that behavior that
you don't want to see more of yeah uh in
a way that doesn't create a wound yeah
because the thing is what you're
describing is very effective boundaries
but boundaries basically are it's not
like okay you did this by I'm never
speaking to you that's almost a
self-sabotage which is something I I
used to definitely indulge in a boundary
is simply here's a behavior I don't like
um if you're going to continue with it
I'm going to withdraw this particular
behavior in response but you're most
welcome to be back in my life if you can
abide by this particular Rule and so
boundaries actually keep people in your
world they teach people how to love you
effectively so it's all a
semi-punishment but more effectively
it's teaching your partner how to love
you properly yeah it's interesting
people are going to hate the word punish
yeah and I think they're going to
struggle in life because they don't
understand that you really are drawing
that line as a penalty but the certain
behaviors need punishment yeah yes and
you have to be very careful remember I'm
saying this within the country of
punishment look like what would could
Lisa do to you that would look like a
punishment
um what could you withdraw
it's a really good question uh so time
would be one for me for sure
um let's say that uh if I'm working too
much and she's like I'm not going to uh
enable that anymore so instead of making
sure that your food is out or whatever
you're gonna have to do that yourself
yeah and if you take time off I'll cook
for you all right oh well now it's like
okay that's the idea like I get yeah so
she's not rejecting me she's not pushing
me away but she's saying hey this thing
I I'll do one up I'll make it even
better but I want to get the thing I
want as well in exchange now remember
we're going to communicate this to each
other so in fact the thing I told my
wife is the only
um trick I'm ever gonna play on you is
that I will always tell you what I'm
doing right now I'm telling you what I'm
doing because I know it will make it
work better because you don't feel like
a chess piece being moved around you
don't feel like you're being manipulated
but by putting it out in the light being
completely honest with you and do doing
it in a way that's smart so it's not
creating a new wound it's we call giving
the keys to the kingdom I'm telling you
exactly how to be successful I'm saying
when you're not doing that thing then
I'm going to make time for you yeah and
then PS going back to the reward side if
she then stopped doing the thing I
didn't want or let's just use me so she
wants me to work less Okay cool so let's
say that she said something like
um either hey uh if you stop working
early on a Wednesday night I'm gonna
light some candles and it's going to be
sexy time okay interesting because now
that might be something that I would
make a change in my pattern for because
I want that thing so now it's like oh
whoa right okay now you've given me like
a really cool incentive and what she's
she's being honest I want more of your
time I understand how important it is
for you to accomplish you've always said
that the marriage is more important
here's something that I think could
really Bond us yeah that's how we talk
yeah so now and I'm sorry so sorry to
change up but in my because I deal with
people who suffer in relationships I
completely agree and I'm in a very
healthy state so I understand that would
work really well but there are people
that come to me and say when I would
draw quality time from my partner and
say you know I'm not going to spend time
with you or even if I would draw
physically it doesn't shake them it
doesn't bother them in those cases I do
say that if your withdrawal doesn't seem
to affect them then unfortunately the
relationship has lost its its Bond
there's no bond left anymore it only
works when two people want what your
when the person wants what you're
depriving them of would you say that I
would but I'll also send people back to
your earlier statement we have a duty to
one another's well-being and so the
reason that this works is when if my
wife were to say hey I need more of your
time I'm not like hey you need to get on
board like I told you I was going to
work this much I'm like whoa okay so you
feel disconnected that's why we've made
you the holder of the key so when you
tell me you need more time I'm going to
make more time yeah and so that that's
that part that I want to make sure that
people are hearing it has to be the
underlying thing because if you don't
have a duty to their well-being why are
you with them well I could answer that
question you're with them because you're
getting something
advantageous out of the relationship but
to your point that that can quickly
become an egotistical I think is the
word you used yeah that you're
satisfying uh an ego Drive rather than a
human flourishing job and so this is why
again going back to values you have to
have a set of values that you live by I
live by my values yeah especially when
they're inconvenient you know I find
your value so in line with religion so
it really I'm sorry to bring it back to
that but I you know sometimes I come
across people who are more Muslim than I
am or more religious than I am and um
and then it may I I just I always admire
people who have found those values or
independently how did you get there okay
so I often get made fun of for something
which is that in business I was trying
to explain what makes me a good
entrepreneur when I came up with this
whole thing and I hand crafted it and I
wrote it down and I read it to my team
and my team went oh that's the
scientific method and I was like really
now you can make as much fun of me as
you for not knowing the scientific
method I didn't study science
yeah uh or you can recognize that when
people triangulate on the same thing
from different disciplines that
it probably means you've reached base
truth and the reason that
a lot of my values probably sound like
religion is because I've found values
that work towards human flourishing
right and if I'm right that religion is
just memes meant to lead you to human
flourishing yeah then if if we didn't
Converge on things one of us is almost
certainly wrong but you know like
becoming so successful as a man and then
being able to access if you wanted to
you could just go live wherever you are
and go any woman or anything like that
what made you be like that none of that
tempts me I'm good just succeeding and
not you women just isn't part because
the red pill space you're bombarded with
men that are kind of taught that the
moment you become successful you have to
have a plethora of women that have to
look like this they have to do that and
that's what makes you happy what advice
would you give to them
as a man who's made probably doubled in
the liver ever ever make I'm not this is
not to put anybody down but it's just
under it's like a you're a freakishly
successful both of you so yeah what how
did what advice would you give to people
who are from that mind frame
the only thing that matters in life is
how you feel about yourself when you're
by yourself yeah that's going to be
determined by The evolutionary
algorithms running in your brain
and the values that you choose to adopt
in your life
and I know how I want to feel
and so I've built a value system that I
think will make me feel that way and I
update my values constantly when
something isn't leading me to that path
and
I believe in love yeah and I believe I
believe in I use whenever I use the word
love to my wife I always capitalize the
L and
it is the thing before which I kneel
right so I don't just mean love like
romance I mean love like when you're
vomiting or you're afraid like I
might be dying right now
there's one person you want with you and
when that person is your best friend and
the person who you trust and the person
you know will run through a wall
for you yeah
life does not have anything better to
offer you yeah now
if I'm right about that thinking of that
person as your adversary someone that
you need to trick yeah is ludicrous yeah
now hear me boys when I say
I used to show up on the first date with
a custom written poem for that person
and flowers I was the caricature because
I really believed that's what was going
to work right and then I asked this guy
that I knew was getting laid left right
and center and he was gorgeous by the
way he's like the model he's the guy
that everybody I forget what they call
him Chad's he was a chat Chad he was
broke he was a chat back then Chads
don't need to be rich they just had to
yeah he was a chat yeah uh and I was
like what is the key
and he said uh you have to treat him be
an I think it was his exact
quote and I I was like this is
stupid it's like there's no way this is
so cliche yeah and I know him
he's not an so I was like okay
what does he actually mean and I
realized oh what he means is be
confident yeah I'm
I I remember in high school there's this
girl I really liked her a lot yeah and
we would be friends and she'd be into me
we'd start dating and then she wouldn't
be into me anymore and I remember asking
her one time why yeah and she's like
when we're just friends you're confident
and when we start dating and she
probably wasn't this eloquent but the
punchline was when we start dating you
fear losing me and you change yeah and
so when he said be an and I put
it together I was like it was like the
sixth sense and I played my life back to
what she said I was like oh my God yeah
so then I was like okay I'm Gonna Be Me
and I'm I'm never again going to have
fear of loss with a woman yeah so be you
with the willingness to walk away yes
yeah because here's the thing I see a
lot of you know the advice online is
treating me and keep them keen and I
know so many men that follow that advice
it's terrible advice and the reason why
it's such terrible advice is the reality
is if you play this game or treat me and
keep him Keen you can only attract a
broken woman a secure healthy woman is
not attracted to men who treats her mean
she's attracted to a man who has a
willingness to leave if she misbehaves
too much and I don't mean that as a
child just like no no a hundred percent
so you have to one everybody out there
you have to become worthy of the person
that you want to be with yeah so all ten
fingers pointed back to you why do you
not have the girlfriend that you want
because you've not earned that person
but then it it's not about being an
it's not about treating the mean
but you absolutely must have enough
confidence you're like this is how I
want to be treated this is how I want to
feel and hey if that if I'm not your guy
or I don't make you feel the way you
want to feel I fully respect that and
I'm going to walk away you will be
shocked if you treat somebody well yeah
and then
call them up real short yeah if
they treat you poorly like I remember I
had a girlfriend and
um she started pulling away from me and
so I was like okay cool I got it and so
I pulled back and she came up to me and
she was like at the time I was thinking
about moving to New York long story but
she comes up she's like you didn't even
tell me that you were planning to move
to New York and I was like you made it
clear that you wanted more distance and
so I'm I'm cool with that I want you for
this to be comfortable for you but don't
expect me to lean in as you're leaning
out yeah and she was like oh damn yeah
and so super attractive yeah and the
thing is that relationship ended because
it was like word like I just did not
have a problem and so if you can't like
if you have insecurity in yourself where
you're like as they're leaning away you
lean in oh my God you're gonna be in for
a rough time unfortunately and this is
what a lot of men do particularly in
this generation the younger generation
they'll pick a woman with all the red
flags because she might be physically
their type so she might be posting lots
of pictures that they don't like online
she might be going out drinking a lot
and all these things and what they'll do
is take her and then try and exert their
dominance and be like you can't go out
you can't post like this but the reality
is when she knows that you don't have
the willingness to walk away she labels
you as insecure the guy that she's
saying is insecure and the red pill men
will say oh we're not insecure we're
setting boundaries no no secure men
don't need to micromanage they leave if
they see that you're doing a behavior
that's terrible they simply leave
insecure they communicate it I hope they
communicate so here's going back to if
my wife had a four terabytes of dick
pics I
I'm not insecure I don't one I'm not a
jealous person by Nature so I do have
that Advantage have you ever been
never oh that's oh that's my thing where
are you that's I mean maybe
it's not my nature but it's not like it
I couldn't get in that position if I
were feeling insecure but the thing is
you want to as someone does something
that makes you feel insecure you want to
speak up yeah so my wife and I have a
rule that we speak in insecurities when
we're arguing right so when somebody
gets mad their insecurities have been
triggered of this I assure you yeah and
so now it's a game of how quickly can
you admit that you're insecure now if
you're with somebody that will weaponize
your insecurities leave yeah so my wife
and I have a role you never and I mean
never I don't care how mad you are I
don't even care what that person does to
you yeah my wife could have an affair
with an entire football team and I I
will never be cruel to her this is not
who I want to be I'll break up with her
yeah I will never speak to her again are
you like that in general with other
people outside of the nation a huge
belief you need to be who you are in in
divorce and in marriage yeah there's a
quote that I heard that I have let
really dominate how I am in in life not
just in my marriage but that you don't
divorce the same person that you marry
right which tells me that people
um code switch and I don't play
that game right I am who I am amazing
and but again that's all for me in
general like you you don't speak mean to
people like say if you're fighting with
your mom or your sister or something
like that you wouldn't be you don't step
out of line and stuff I can be very
aggressive it let me be very clear there
are people who would say that I have
been mean but if you ask them to repeat
what I said you'd probably characterize
it as aggressive right because I can be
very aggressive and what I mean by that
because I'm not a yeller I don't scream
but I will boil things down to its
simplest thing and that can often make
people very uncomfortable when I'm like
so you're saying XYZ and when you
unvarnish something yeah you can make
people very very very uncomfortable okay
um but the insights with Lisa it will
never get cruel no never literally never
because you can't come back from that
yeah and so this is why people have got
to build these you have to build your
value system before you get into the
relationship yeah and and what advice
would you give to people who can't who
get so anxious and then they get mean
and stuff like that what do you usually
tell them that's a you problem it
definitely is a good problem because
there's nothing that can't be
communicated effectively and calmly if
you are going to hostile chances are
you've picked up a fighting system from
your parents that involved hurting they
involved going below the belt and then
you're bringing that into your
relationship and unfortunately punishing
them for a system that they didn't help
create in you so if you have that nature
try your best to work on it but also try
not to partner up with somebody who also
does that because then it turns physical
at some point yeah unfortunately it has
to be completely yeah it does this is
people have got to decide what kind of
person do you want to be not only think
about it vaguely write it down yeah what
are your values like Lisa told me at the
beginning of our relationship if you
ever cheat on me or beat me I'm gone
yeah and she was like Hardline no Second
Chances yeah no one discussion gone and
knowing how stubborn she is that that
would be that yeah and so I'm just like
first of all I'm not drawn to either of
those yeah but I was just like okay yep
totally understand yeah
um but also what you would do Breakers
with her
um I've never had like big things like
that but cheating would be a deal
breaker if she ever cheated on me that
would be the end of the story would you
say if she hits you would you
if the woman hit you would you leave no
I know and it's unfortunate I actually
recommend men to draw a line when it
comes to physical hitting interesting um
but they usually don't oh so here's yeah
here is
um how I would think about that so one I
want to be very thoughtful because like
that that
the reason I wouldn't is I don't have an
ounce of fear
with my wife yeah if I was scared of her
yeah and no judgment if I was scared of
her then it might be very different
because I would not stay in a
relationship where I was afraid of the
other person I have a lot of men that
have physically abusive wives yeah that
hit them and stuff and they may be very
clear
hit me once doesn't mean I'm going to
divorce you yeah hit me twice we have a
problem we have a problem
because I we we will have talked about
that yeah and the thing is it's not
because of the pain of course you can
handle that but there's a level of
disrespect and an emotional volatility
in people that hit and um and then we
almost give women a pass with it and I
can imagine once in a blue moon
something she over erupted and I can
imagine a like a pass with that but some
women do it as a form of conflict
resolution and a lot of men don't speak
up about it but I do think that's right
that's crazy isn't it yeah I would never
put up with for the emotional reason
yeah that you are out of control yeah
you're just not ready for a relationship
it's you're just you can't regulate
yourself yeah yeah self-regulation is
very much that is a tenant in my life I
would not be with a woman that cannot
emotionally regulate yeah and they hit
like and it's a and it's something
that's under spoken about but it is
again it's part of the um
when I talked about narcissistic women
is because we've tilted it where women
are automatic victims and sometimes they
are the narcissist in the relationship
I'll always have women come to me for
therapy and they say My Ex's and
narcissist and when you read her story
it might be that she was cheating on her
husband with a guy and saying that you
know her husband's an artist or the guy
that she's cheating with and answers and
their perception of what a narcissist
looks like is so skewed because they're
so holding on to the idea that they're a
victim in the relationship they just
want to find a reason so I do think that
if you are with a woman who uses that
word a lot and a woman that uses
physical aggression be mindful yeah just
because it doesn't hurt doesn't mean
it's not a deal breaker yeah yeah it's
very interesting people unfortunately
people need to pursue emotional
stability one of the things that I think
has made Lisa nice relationship work so
well is she has a slightly more
masculine temperament than most women
and I have a slightly more feminine
temperament than most guys and so that
brings us both closer to the middle
which really really works yeah do you
understand the better very much and we
just
um she is
very emotionally regulated does not
swing wildly with
um her cycle and so it makes her far
more predictable for me
um and then I'm hyper communicative I'm
very in touch with my emotions I have no
problem speaking about my insecurities
yeah so things like that amazing
certainly help but one thing you've been
very clear about is that people
selection is really everything how do we
get selection right
um unfortunately and sometimes things
that are out of their control but one
good indicator is
um the upbringing and that doesn't mean
it has to be perfect but there is an
element of some stability some level of
emotional stability now when it's
totally totally chaotic unfortunately
you're you and I always say to men that
your competition is not other men it's
her childhood if it's totally chaotic no
matter how much stability you provide
her she'll find it very very difficult
to settle into that stable relationship
but if there was some of course there's
optional very few people escaped
chartered without some trauma but if it
was on the whole she understood that
love existed and you know a connection
was always there what will happen is
you'll appreciate those things about you
but when it's so chaotic unfortunately
there's so much work to undo and if she
hasn't started it you can't finish it so
I I recommend that looking for somebody
with some level of emotional regulation
is really important but the other thing
about selection is recognizing your what
you consider a deal breaker if I
consider sexual promiscuity a deal
breaker and I'm with a partner who's
really addicted to pornography really
wants to experiment so on and so forth
there's nothing no amount of love I can
give them that will change their core
needs and desires and I shouldn't expect
them I shouldn't expect him to contort
himself to fit my needs so you look at
what your deal breakers are now if she
or he is displaying them don't be
narcissistic enough to think that your
love is enough to undo it unfortunately
they're allowed to do be the person they
want you're allowed to be the person you
want to be but almost watching all the
red flags and going for it anyway is
masochism you're gonna end up you know
micromanaging you're going to end up
like holding them by the throat getting
them to behave when really they should
be allowed to be the person that they
showed you they were from the beginning
so selecting according to your own deal
breakers is really important
if somebody had a bad childhood are they
just damaged goods no no they're
definitely not damaged goods but one
thing I would say is we underestimate
the impact particularly about the person
that comes from the damaged childhood
they seem to think that it's fine it's
not it's uh but if they recognize that
they have areas to work on and they have
abandonment wounds they are easy to be
with but if they're somebody who's in
denial about that and genuinely believe
that you're the cause of their emotional
pain unfortunately no matter what you do
that emotional pain that wound that
predates you is always going to be
inflamed and they're always going to
blame and expect you to soothe them so
it's always good to be with somebody who
might even if they've got a damaged
childhood recognizes that damage that
then you're on to a healthy relationship
how do you advise people to identify and
deal with their insecurities
um recognize that are you having a
disproportionate reaction to the event
if for example my partner hasn't replied
to my message and I'm starting to get
really panicked or really angry 1977
really hostile I'm having a
disproportionate reaction so that's an
insight into there's an insecurity there
I'm making assumptions and I'm causing
myself emotional pain so where how you
recognize it is your disproportionate
reaction and then how you cope with it
is either soothing yourself or
communicating with your partner and
letting them know that you're having a
disproportionate reaction and allowing
them to soothe you but just simply
reacting to your emotions and then
expecting and causing more chaos is only
going to exasperate your existing
insecurities unfortunately and that's
why you're having a healthy partner is
so important because they recognize that
you have these issues and they offer you
soothing but having an avoidant partner
will see that your insecurities as a you
problem and then just not want anything
to do with your issues and then you end
up just driving yourself insane so it's
very difficult my wife Lisa struggled
profoundly with her gut health and
experienced debilitating stomach pain so
I focus my energy on learning everything
I could about the human gut biome is on
The Cutting Edge of this growing area of
study with their at-home gut
intelligence test just two to three
weeks after sending in your sample you
can see your results on 20 Integrative
Health tests that measure your
inflammatory activity metabolic Fitness
and the health of your gut lining as a
special offer to my viewers biome is
offering 110 off your test just go to
try biome.com
impact and use code impact to get the
110 off talk to me about gender rules
one of the reasons that I think you
speak so well in this moment is that you
do have a more traditional lean which I
think makes relationships way easier
yeah
what are the roles and how strictly
should people adhere to them if they
want to be successful I think of it it's
just recognizing our Evolution the
reality is women were designed one of
the reasons why women can move on
quickly from heartbreak and
relationships and go from one man to
another is in evolutionary times if they
lost their partner to war or to
Predators or whatever it is they would
have to find another one even if they
shared him with another bunch of women
they would have to do that otherwise
they'd die so we have these instincts in
us that we can't always explain now a
woman's instinct is always to be
somewhat looked after it doesn't even
have to be Financial but just knowing
that a man looks after that could mean
did you get home safe a digital um was
work okay did you get on your flight
okay just checking in women really value
them you know that checking in whether
it's Financial investment or emotional
investment they need it in order to feel
safe for a man the nurturing is really
important for him that nurture is their
way of understanding you appreciate them
when you nurture them they take it to
mean you love and appreciate me when you
don't nurture them they take it to mean
that I'm an ATM here and no one cares
about me so they get drastic with their
responses so I would say that the
emotional Financial investment is what
women generally like to look for and the
appreciation and nurtures what men tend
to look for
okay so a lot of women are having a
seizure over that right now uh let me
ask should a woman yeah submit to a
man's leadership I think that when you
meet a man who is so is such a safe bet
and so secure submission is a natural
consequence now if you refuse to do that
because you don't see like it just goes
against everything The Narrative you've
been taught you're depriving yourself of
a really beautiful relationship I'm not
saying submit to every man but a good
man who cares about your well-being
you'd be a fool not to submit to him
you'd be a fool to argue with him uh you
would be missing out on a great
connection simply because you want to
maintain your Independence but
Independence is overrated
give me details on what it means to
submit
um
can a woman be a fully actualized person
completely her own woman driven boss
babe and still submit to somebody's
leadership or does that mentality break
the potential relationship it's a little
bit harder I would say that it's a
little bit harder because you get so
used to your own authority when you are
independent but I would say is a
delegation you might want to have a
really great career outside and Be Your
Own Boss but at home there's certain
decisions that you allow him to lead on
and you allow him to lead on because you
trust his leadership and you don't you
giving him that Authority is because
he's earned it through trust love and
Leadership you know you can trust his
authority you don't need to have a say
in every single thing in life sometimes
you should just relax and if you are
that boss babe don't you want some areas
of your life where you don't have to
think and somebody else can just lead
it's good for you it's recharging your
batteries so I would say that if you are
really successful find areas where you
don't have to think it might be when he
plans a holiday or when he chooses where
to live or something like that instead
of fighting that Embrace that as a way
of your off period you don't have to
think you can relax and see it as in a
positive rather than negative
okay so how does
um how does a modern woman who is very
driven very sharp yeah uh she is working
she realizes hey I'm really good at this
decision-making thing
um
why would she come home and submit to
somebody else's leadership why not just
maintain the leadership role because she
shouldn't be with somebody unless she if
she's really astute at decision making
she would have chosen a partner that she
can delegate decisions to
if you're really good at decision making
as a woman and you're really successful
and you really know your you don't
be with a man that doesn't
that suggests that there's a hole in
your self-esteem if you've chosen a man
that you don't truly see as effective
decision makers yourself so if you are
all of those things then your partner
selection should have been also great so
great that there are parts that you can
just delegate and then allow him to lead
on now are you saying that women are
hardwired because we both have the north
star of human flourishing yeah so are
you saying that women will flourish more
if they get no matter how powerful they
are if they get with a man that is they
are the right person to lead yeah in the
family life I'm not sure the thing is
you if you if you really want to
flourish choose a man that you can who
can put blindfolds on you and you trust
where he's going because essentially
there's gonna come a time either through
kids or through age where you Tire
yourself out from being that boss babe
because you're not designed for it we're
not always designed for it it's
beautiful always designed for or not
designed for I think we're not fully I
think we're not I think there's a time
where we are designed for it when we're
young and we have the energy or when
we've got potential but at some stage in
our life we get to the point where we do
we um retire earlier and it's again it's
evolutionary we're not actually designed
to be is so driven all the time all day
every day we're actually designed to be
looked after and kept safe so as much as
you might have all this energy now at
least choose somebody's role when you
slow down and you take your foot off the
pedal he could take the steering wheel
and if you haven't chosen that you've
effectively adopted a son that you
didn't choose
interesting okay so let's keep going
down this road so
um I hear you saying that this is really
just an energy question yeah is it an
energy question or is it a hard wiring
question in that a woman who and for for
the conversation we will assume the man
is worthy yeah you see him as uh an
incredible person so it's not like
you're submitting to a bozo so you found
a guy he's a worthy leader yeah it's a
word
um are you saying that no the only time
you need to submit is when you you get
tired you know go do your thing and then
at some point later down the road submit
just because you get tired of doing it
or are you saying that this is really
the result of evolution and evolution
has left women in psychological position
where they will actually be happier yeah
if they submit to a worthy man's
leadership yeah I think it's the latter
I think you would genuinely be happier
in your reserve more energy and fuel if
you submit to a man who's worthy of
submission from early rather than you
know one day burning out and then
thinking now I want a man to save me
because I'm so exhausted and tired and I
meet girls when they turn 33 onwards
they're just so tired of doing
everything themselves and they'll say to
me I am just tired of even carrying my
grocery bags from the car into the house
I'm so tired of that I know it's a more
but I just I'm so tired of it whereas
when if you pick somebody and you
delegate and you submit as you're going
along what will happen is you have more
energy through about life they give you
that that's what a man should be he
shouldn't be a burden he should be
somebody that you look forward to
submitting to because you trust the
process you trust their vision and if
you haven't found that then you're going
to suffer so why would it be that
Evolution would leave women in a
situation where
they don't want to have to lead all the
time they actually want to Outsource a
lot of a lot of the decision making
to a man
why would that be what is the reward has
Evolution given them a reward children
what happens is and that's why baby
brain is a real thing women that will
say I've got baby brain what they mean
is once they become a mother their brain
is absorbed by becoming a mother they
literally start seeing their life
through the lens of their baby so
they'll walk into a room and be able to
spot the danger and say that's dangerous
so they stop being able to think about
themselves and they stop being able to
think outside of the lens of a baby so
if they don't have a man that they can
rely on they not only have to look after
the baby 24 7 but then they have to
worry about him and they just get
overwhelmed whereas when you have that
secure man and you've submitted that you
can submit to when you go into baby Zone
it doesn't matter the ship is still
sailing he's got everything else covered
but when you don't you then have to put
your feet on both pedals and you're
gonna be overwhelmed so because we're
designed to be mothers we're designed to
have somebody that we can submit to when
we become preoccupied with the child
okay so in a modern context woman can
push that off off
why not why submit if you never plan to
have kids
um because you still run out of energy
at some stage at some stage in our life
we don't have this we don't produce the
same endorphins and stuff at some stage
or another and also
um what Joy is there from being
completely independent isn't life more
beautiful when you share it and depend
on one another
I want to stay close to this idea of
submitting to leadership yeah so
um for a well so let me ask a slightly
different question then would the
optimal life strategy for a woman be to
be boss babe mode and tell call it
roughly 30 to 35 and that so be with a
guy that does what you say during those
years and then no there's going to be a
natural break somewhere in there and or
maybe I just had a series of
relationships and now at 30 to 35 I'm
going to settle down I'm going to find a
man that is worthy of submitting to and
and I'm really submitting probably is a
word I don't like I'm translating from
them I don't like that word but I'm
going to be able to Outsource some of
the decision making so I can focus on my
kids I think a lot of women do do that
where they be with a man that they can
control and then switch it up for a man
that they want to take control from I
think the worst thing you can do is be
with a man that you can control even
before you have a baby even before you
have a baby because it gets you into the
habit of seeing men as a nuisance rather
than an addition to your life when you
have a man that you can control what
happens is you end up raising him yeah
he activates your maternal Instinct
rather than your sexual Instinct so you
end up having to raise him having to
check if he's there and so on and so
forth he becomes a burden to your life
and therefore you start to glorify
singlehood whereas when you are with a
man that you don't control and he
actually helps control you you see the
beauty in a relationship so I think when
I meet women who are with men that they
control especially in marriages they
become disrespectful to him they speak
to him badly they become a woman they
don't like whereas when they're with a
man that takes leadership they actually
remain respectful they remain kind they
remain in awe of their partner for a
long time so I don't recommend ever
being with a man that you can control
you become a woman that you don't like
unfortunately
very interesting okay so if being with a
man that you can control activates your
mother instincts
what activates a woman's sexual
instincts being with a man that removes
her fears
and what that what I mean by that is
physical fears like you're scared of
other people whatever if that exists
Financial fears emotional fears when
you're with a man that removes fears and
replaces it with safety and connection
and you know mutual respect then what
happens is it activates your sexual
desires you can only like your mum says
you can only orgasm when you trust so
when he takes away your fears you can
develop Trust
you might Wrangle this into fears but I
I believe very strongly that there's one
more piece of the equation if you really
want to activate a woman sexually yeah
and that is you have to make her feel
beautiful yeah I agree I really agree I
I genuinely think that a lot of women
when they deny him in a sex it's really
because they haven't felt beautiful in
so long so they think that if you don't
find me beautiful what is the point
women again I know I keep using the word
narcissistic when it comes to women but
our sexual experience is narcissistic
how much we enjoy it is entirely based
with how you make us feel how beautiful
and loved you make us feel and this is
one of the reasons why I know I keep
going back to pornography I encourage
men never to watch pornography when
they're growing up when they're young
because what happens is they develop a
dysfunction erectile dysfunction and
when a remote woman doesn't feel
attractive she can never desire you
again if a man can't keep his erection
in the first couple of times if they
haven't established safety and they
haven't got their loving relationship
but first couple of times you can't keep
in direction that woman cannot sexually
desire you again because you make her
feel so ugly in that moment even though
it's got nothing to do with you even
though it might have nothing to do
you're the man's like inability to
perform may have nothing to do with me
but there's women take it so personal
so personal and they'll never desire him
again ever whereas another man who makes
her feel like the most like a goddess
she will desire him again and again so
it's in your best interest to not worry
about what move or what angle or
whatever just make a stroke her ego in
that moment
honestly yeah Mike my drop on that all
right that is um that's very interesting
there's no Universe which you don't get
hate from women on some of this stuff
yeah what do they say and with love in
your heart
because of course I what do they say and
then with love in your heart what do you
say back to them um
I struggled to find to find the love in
my heart a lot of the times if I'm very
honest
it goes straight to appearance um
appearance is usually the first go-to
and so they don't even attack your
argument they're just like it's quicker
and easier to attack my appearance
um they'll call me ugly they'll say that
it's all makeup does and if they don't
want to say that they'll say it's all
surgery and all this nonsense so they're
usually go to appearance then if they
don't want to sound too bitter because
going for someone's appearance is really
um it sounds a bit too obvious and they
might go for your qualifications and
they might say oh but you know
psychology is a degree anyway and
it's it's not proper qualified it's not
this it's not that so they'll go for
that and then final and kind of
basically they'll go for my
um my chest to see so they'll say I bet
she's a I bet she's an escort so it
usually goes in that order so they
either attack you physically or
academically or they attack you sexually
so on a in those usually in that order
yeah so they're not because what I was
hoping they were gonna give a counter
argument very very rare that I find that
it's very rare that I'll find a woman
that will actually argue against what
I'm saying they'll make it completely
personalized and this is something I
wasn't prepared for when you go on
social media when you go on social media
as like maybe an influencer or somebody
who's promoting makeup and beauty and
stuff you're very prepared for your
appearance to be judged because you went
on it for that I had zero idea that that
would be the focus so what happens
usually when I say a message that they
don't agree with it goes straight to my
appearance it goes it bypasses the
message and goes straight to my
appearance or my sexuality or something
along those lines and um to kind of
lower my status as a woman
wow that's very interesting okay I'm
gonna try to channel what I think would
be a more effective idea somebody that's
really going to address the idea instead
of the the messenger homonym attack of
just trying to make out like you're a
bad person yeah okay so
um if I were talking to my daughter
I have to step outside of my own belief
system for a second so I'm gonna say
what I think I'm gonna steal man the
argument and then we can get into what I
actually believe uh so I want my I want
to make sure that my daughter
can fully Embrace autonomy that she
learns to think for herself that she
doesn't turn to anybody that she
realizes we don't live on the Savannah
anymore that yes there are going to be
some evolutionary wins at your back but
you don't need to be a slave to your
instincts and I want you to become
whoever you want to become and you can
become anybody there are women that have
become astronauts there are women that
have become rock stars they're women
that become Prime Ministers and
presidents and lit soldiers there is
nothing you can't do and you are as
smart as a man uh the intelligence
distribution is such that I mean I I
know the literal intelligence
distribution is such that there are more
men at the extremes so you have more
brilliant men but there are more moronic
men yeah so you're going to be smarter
than a lot a lot of men and so like
really push yourself if you want to be a
mathematician be a mathematician if you
want to go into particle physics go into
particle physics and you'll find
somebody that you can love and you'll
find somebody that loves you and if if
they want to stay at home and take care
of the kids that is absolutely fine
and
yeah just the the greatest joy in life
is being who you really are I I would
say that but I just think genuinely
speaking I think worst case scenario you
want to be who you are but at least pick
someone that if you needed to submit to
you could even if you never need to you
might never need to pull on that dial
and you might forever be he's gonna pull
you honey in up to I'm speaking to my
daughter I'm not calling you honey yeah
we want to make that very clear uh my my
young darling that is uh he's gonna he
may steal your dream right and you'll
end up supporting his dream and it's
better to find somebody that supports
you yeah I agree I agree yeah no I do
agree because the thing is I wouldn't be
able to do what I do if I didn't have
that and so I definitely agree that
having somebody but here's the thing I
wouldn't uh like what I mean by having
someone you could submit to I wouldn't
submit to a man that's suppressing my
dreams I'm suppressing my potential sure
because he obviously doesn't know me and
doesn't know my uniqueness or
appreciates it so I choose somebody I
would personally submit to when people
hear the word submit they think of a
tyrannical leader telling you what you
can and can't do what I mean by that is
you choose somebody Who You're So
aligned to you and so somebody you're so
respect and you respect each other that
if you needed to blindfold yourself you
would trust him with where to go and if
you don't find that why would you submit
of course not but when I say something I
don't just mean pick a man and listen to
him I mean have a man that genuinely
sees who you are understands what's best
for you and therefore will guide you in
the right direction and if you need him
to take the wheel he will just usually
what I mean by that yeah okay so now
I'll see if I can
um articulate my point in a way so
normally I would be inflammatory right
now because I find it so fun to just be
blunt
um
okay remember that I'm married to a
woman that I respect an incredible
amount yeah but my advice to women is I
believe there is enough evolutionary
pressure at your back
um
and enough evolutionary pressure at
Men's backs that for a husband and wife
to be a team against the world and for
you both to accomplish what you want to
accomplish the following Dynamic will
work best given that 50 of you is
unchangeable and that is I think
hypergamy which is the female tendency
to date across or up is is a very real
thing and that women are very just
evolutionarily you have an algorithm in
your mind that will make you very
comfortable with a man that that is
equal to you in all things or above you
but you will not be satisfied in a
relationship where the man is below you
yeah and I think that
men will be happiest because I actually
don't know what I think about women I
think
I don't yet know and maybe as I say this
out loud I'll I'll have an opinion come
to my mind men I think will be at their
best in the relationship if they feel
powerful right and they're not going to
feel powerful if you're better than them
at a lot of traditionally masculine
things leadership being the easiest one
to Peg to they actually produce more
cortisol in relationships with women
that earn more than them or take more
dominance so they literally experience
more stress uh biologically and
biochemically which actually decreases
the testosterone so they have less
sexual desire and more stress when
they're around a woman who's more
successful than them isn't that weird it
is not weird at all it's fascinating
and there's a great quote of course said
by a man but everything is about sex
except sex that's about power and
the fascinating thing about when you
were talking about a woman will not want
to be with you if in those critical
early moments you don't get an erection
because she internalizes that as you're
not attracted to me and I remember
hearing ones that women don't like
um photos of a flaccid penis but that
while they of course do not everybody
listening they do not want you to send
them dick pics
but if they have to encounter a penis
they are far more interested in one
that's erect and so
um that's so funny from a sexual vantage
point because it means you find me
desirable right so
flip that now and for the guy if he's
not getting an erection he doesn't feel
powerful of this I assure you and
something is going wrong where his he's
in his own head as he would probably say
and he's worried about something of it
to do with the woman it could but yeah
there could be a thousand I'll I said
this before on camera I will say it
again uh the first times probably not
the only time but I will admit I am
blessed because I stay in shape very
attractive they're a precious few times
where I have a hard time maintaining an
erection but it has happened yeah the
first time it happened was so funny that
I it wasn't funny at the time yeah but
in the retelling is funny so uh poor at
the time living in an apartment with
thin walls and the guy above us we were
having this really hot steamy moment
like in a random part of the house and
our apartment and we were going at it
going very well and the guy upstairs
sounds like he's dying of emphysema I
mean he is just hacking up a lung and
he's just coughing and it's that wet
gross and so I'm just slow yeah there
was no music oh God it was so horrible
oh yeah and so that had nothing to do
with my wife but it
I didn't feel powerful I'm in my own
head she sounds like he's dying it's
just really there's a lot going
on so yeah I was just like oh God and so
once you're in that zone now it had
nothing to do with her but
that is when you sort of break that
spell and you're not feeling confident
you're not feeling sexy you're not
feeling powerful then it you're in real
trouble
um so that is
there can be a whole host of reasons why
you end up in trouble with that so
anyway getting back to the initial thing
I think that if if for the the man and
woman to work together I don't
necessarily know that the woman needs to
submit but the guy needs to lead right
and so but I I have a real strong belief
in life never ask someone to slow down
so you can lead right which means the
guy has actually got to be the right
person to leave yeah that's it and so
and this is what I hold myself
accountable into my marriage my wife is
amazing she's the best business
partner I've ever had she's unbelievable
she has an incredible business mind
which I think took us both by surprise
we were like whoa you're really good at
this and so that's been amazing but it
also made me realize yo I've got to step
up my game yeah because I've got to
outperform and because I want to be the
right person to lead now hey everybody
Public Services announcement leadership
is about knowing when to follow yeah and
so there are times where my wife's just
better at that kind of decision making
and so I'll be like you're better at
this tonight so saying that you're the
quote unquote leader does not mean that
you're an idiot and you don't know when
to listen to the other person exactly
and so a good leader also knows when to
follow but that that really does not
mean that we lead equal percentage of
the time and I would say this in front
of my wife I would give her every
opportunity to say that I'm I'm not
being honest trust me she agrees and so
my wife the thing she's always said is I
want to be as powerful as humanly
possible and I want you to be so
powerful that I can be small in your
arms and I was like homie you get me
like that's that's the juice because if
if you couldn't authentically make me
feel like that
and if I didn't authentically make you
feel like that this wouldn't work and so
this is where I have empathy for the red
pill Community all of this is
complicated it is very hard I think you
know when you shoot above your range
when it comes to a woman either you're
choosing somebody physically obviously
or um you know intellectually out of
your league you always suffer you as a
man and I know that they they kind of
think no no it's okay to be with a woman
that's 10 times more beautiful than you
or it's okay to be with a woman who's
more success or whatever you can fix it
unfortunately what will happen is she
will use what she has above you to start
losing respect for you sometimes so it's
always if you like you said if you have
to slow if you have to get some people
to slow down for you to lean it's a
recipe for disaster so it's always
better to just shoot within your range
so find a woman that you are naturally
able to lead rather than picking whoever
you want and forcing her to follow your
leadership it won't work that way just
pick within your range
what I love about the way that you talk
about this it is hyper practical yeah
and that is very much what I want for
people so I'm not saying it's good or
bad that it is this way but it is this
it is this way if you're going to choose
a woman that's 20 times prettier than
you are handsome unfortunately she'll
feel Irreplaceable and she might just
start disrespecting you whereas when you
pick somebody on the same level as you
what will happen is you both feel
Irreplaceable to each other because you
match each other so I meet so many men
that are being abused by women and
they're staying there because she's so
beautiful but she's abusing him because
she wants to know as he's not going
anywhere he also does not respect
himself
yeah and so that's why I just think
shoot within your range and so this the
problem with today's world is people are
losing sight of what their range is
whether that's Financial or physical
yeah because of the materialistic or the
kind of physical attributes of men and
women are being highlighted on social
media so we think it doesn't make them
lose sight of their own range because
they think it's accessible it's far more
accessible than it is just because they
see it because they see it when we see
something we assume it's somewhat within
our range so men are seeing beautiful
women all day every day and they're
thinking it's more accessible and when
they're not getting it they're thinking
oh okay I just need to make more money
but if you have to rely on something
external to access that that means it's
not actually for you it's not actually
joined for you yeah I don't know about
that don't you think so I think if I had
to you know get a few surgeries to get
the right guy for me we're not right for
each other and similarly if a man had to
make a a couple of thousands a couple
more million to access me he himself is
not right for me yes so uh do I mean yes
here what you're saying is very complex
in that if I needed to if I really
wanted you and you would have nothing to
do with me and I go make a couple more
million and I come back and now you want
me yeah Bad News Bears avoid avoid void
but if you go make a couple million
different women will now be in your
league yeah that's just real and ladies
this is not me encouraging you to get
plastic surgery in fact I've talked to
my wife my wife used to be insecure
about her nose which she has talked
openly about I love that note so
um I did not want her I would never have
wanted her to get surgery it's not like
she was contemplating it or anything but
when she was a kid she did and when she
brought that up to me I was like oh my
God I love your nose
um
but if she had gotten a nose job when
she was a kid more guys probably would
have been attracted to her right so it's
like that's real I yeah I get it but I
also think that you bought your
compatible with it has to be in line
with your actual self-esteem not your
extrinsic value so I do think that yes
let's say for example I get a bunch of
surgery and stuff like that Sadia is
still Sadia she has a level of
confidence and self-esteem that is
pretty much stable now I might end up
let's say I get loads of surgery and I
end up being with I don't know Chris
Brown the reality is the real me is
incompatible with him
and I won't know how to navigate that
kind of man I'll feel insecure in his
presence I feel like every woman is my
competition because the next girl with
more surgery can attract him I won't
feel like I attracted him I felt like
something external attracted him which
is easily replaceable similarly if you
have to make a couple of a couple of
million to get hold of that Pamela
Anderson kind of woman unfortunately
what that mean is you become replaceable
all it takes is somebody else with that
money the real you and the real person
that you attract will eventually become
Irreplaceable if you use internal
ingredients to attract a partner
hmm it's very interesting so I think the
base assumption in that that I may not
100 agree with is or the reality is more
complicated is that if you I'll I'll
stick to the male side because maybe I
get the medicine a little bit more
because here's the thing I couldn't be
attracted to a man who is not successful
only because the qualities it takes to
be unsuccessful in this day and age you
have to be relatively lazy and you have
to be because there's so many
opportunities to education or to online
marketing or something like that so I
don't like the treats that keep a man
unsuccessful I like the traits of a
successful man but reality is the more a
woman is physically attracted to you the
more she makes access to her easy the
more physically attracted she is to you
access becomes easy the less attractive
to you the more barriers become
available so that's why I think that
when she's placing barriers there
there's a lack of physical attraction
so you are overcoming physical
attraction to access her and then you
run the risk of her being physically
Unfaithful um so that's why I don't
recommend it
yeah that's so interesting and I've
heard you say that Richmond get cheated
on more than yeah that's so interesting
okay we'll get to that in a second yeah
uh so here's to your point the reason
that I think that the reality is
slightly more complicated certainly for
guys maybe for women is that
when like I I nobody expected me to do
well my mother when I left for college
quietly asleep no definitely not so we
were we were on the border between
middle class and lower middle class you
had access to education
uh Public public I guess yeah yeah and
you went on to college Stellar yes I did
okay amazing took out loans and all that
good stuff okay
um
but
I didn't have discipline and so I think
there's a you have to have ambition
discipline and intellect unfortunately I
wish that wasn't part of the equation
but it is and if you have those three
things then you've got a chance to be
successful but nobody knows if you can
develop Drive yeah and so I had ambition
and thankfully I had intellect that
maybe hadn't fully developed yet
um but no one was sure if I would
develop drive and I didn't develop drive
until after I asked Lisa to marry me she
said yes and then I started becoming
very ashamed of myself because I was
laying in bed four to five hours a day
while she went to work and my only job
was to make her a sandwich at lunch and
half the time I was like scrambling to
have it made by the time she got there
and I wasn't getting dressed or doing my
hair and she was mortified so anyway
finally one day I'm like oh my God I'm
telling I promised her dad I would make
her rich one day I told her I'm gonna
make her rich one day and nothing I'm
doing is actually pointed in that
direction and that shame that
self-loathing was enough to get me
moving right then once I did developed
the discipline then I was like okay now
I can do anything I want it's
absolutely incredible and so I became a
person that was worthy of her respect
and worthy of my own respect quite
frankly and so that really made me a
different person yeah and an attractive
person yeah and so it is a very
complicated thing yeah because so we got
married young and this is something that
I'm sad is very uncommon now
but I don't know who I would be if I
hadn't met her and here this is another
reason why I think more traditional
roles are very useful so when Lisa and I
got together
[Music]
she was very traditional she grew up in
a traditional household her family was
Greek her dad told her yeah you can go
study filmmaking or whatever you want
because you're you're and he didn't mean
this in a derogatory way yeah the
greatest thing a woman can do with her
life is become a wife and mother yeah
and so to honor the Gods like I I really
want that's how he thought of it yeah he
did not think oh you're less than to
become the thing that is worth a man
dying for you will go become a wife and
mother it's the most beautiful thing you
could do it's the greatest contribution
to the world to your family like people
that denigrate my wife doesn't have kids
I don't have kids but to denigrate
motherhood is insane yeah so
anyway with
joy and reverence in his heart he was
thinking you will become a mother so
enjoy your time yeah yeah so like yeah
study whatever you want and
that
really imprinted in my wife even though
she had Big Dreams it imprinted in my
wife that being a mother and being a
wife is very honorable right and so when
we got married she thought okay you go
be successful first and then when we're
successful enough I'll Chase my dream as
well
and
in that though she had to work through
me she didn't have a direct interface to
the world with ambition and drive but
she had a husband and she could
incentivize her husband
in her very powerful feminine ways and
the greatest explanation of this I've
ever heard was in My Big Fat Greek
Wedding when the woman said your heart
or your father may be the head but I'm
the neck and I point him at whatever I
want to point him yeah that was my
marriage yeah and so my wife pointed me
at becoming the man that I've become and
rewarded the things she liked and I know
this is probably the dumb word to use
but punish the things that she didn't
and to earn her respect and to get that
look that look that a woman gives when
she thinks you're incredible yeah to
earn that look which is the greatest
thing in the world yeah I became who I
became yeah and it's super attractive to
a woman because here's the thing we are
attracted to men that fulfill their
potential we're always attracted to a
man that fulfills his potential when we
see a man filled with potential and he's
not using it we naturally become less
attractive and it's one of the reasons
why I find you know the younger
generation where they make a lot of
money on crypto and they make a lot of
money quick
um it's super unattractive to women it
only attracts very vacuous women because
the reality is the skills that you need
and all the failures and this rejection
and the setback essentially you need
them to build character when you get
rich fast you still you'll find these
men bored in a gym at like a 4 P.M on a
on a Wednesday because they don't really
have a structured life or anything like
that and they feel unfulfilled as well
that I'm I would love to see long-term
studies on men that made money quickly
on crypto and in the future in terms of
their mental health I don't know how
conducive it is to them because for men
they need to be someone even for women
there needs to be some discomfort in
order to stimulate
um your potential and these kind of
quick fixes don't do it so I do
recognize that women are attracted to
money but good women are not attracted
to money they're attracted to the
process of a disciplined self-controlled
man but vacuous women are attracted to
the outcome not the process and they
just want to see you they don't care if
you're a drug dealer they don't care if
you're a crypto guy they just want to
see the lifestyle so you have to be
careful how you make your money
very interesting okay so why do wealthy
men get cheated on more this section in
Partners tend to be awful now
unfortunately you got very lucky you
picked a partner before you made money
but unfortunately I'm sure you I did not
get lucky oh you didn't I don't know
yeah you selected with my eyes it's
amazing that's the way to do it what
happens with rich men is they tend to
hit the reality is being super super
successful
um it tends to require some level of
social autism and what I mean by that is
it requires a man who's happy to
sacrifice social connections to just
work just get work done so he tends to
be a man with a small circle it's more
like interaction limited social skills
let's just get on with work now that
kind of guy unfortunately what happens
is he goes through most of life not
really meeting many women not really
being around them and then making money
you just access loads of really
attractive women that you didn't think
you could ever access before so what
happens is they lose their eyesight when
when it comes to her character and they
focus entirely on her appearance so they
end up attracting women who just like
his lifestyle who don't care if there's
a lot of emotional connection won't mind
that you're working 25 hours a day eight
days a week because she's got access to
your credit card and that type of woman
is completely different to the woman
that begs you for a few days off so she
can spend more time with you so what
happens is men that have a simple job
simple careers attract women who like
quality time men that have very busy
careers that take over their world they
attract women who just like the perks of
being with you and those women are so
emotionally disconnected to you that
cheating doesn't feel like anything to
those women whereas the women that build
with you and her mother she connected to
you will crave quality time they don't
want that CEO lifestyle so they filter
themselves out so you end up with a pool
of women that are more likely to cheat
really interesting yeah this is why
people really have got to ask themselves
the question what is going to
need to be true for this relationship to
be worth the sacrifices yeah and if your
answer is sex you're in real trouble and
you have to ask yourself if your
motivation if your motivation for
becoming rich is getting more women you
have to think about the quality of women
if you couldn't access her without money
then chances are any man with money can
access her and if you yeah so if I if
you can access her without money she's
your level but if it takes money to
access her you are replaceable by a
night the next man who's an ATM
so don't do it
unfortunately we have to be realistic
with our expectations if you're a four
out of 10 guy that happens to be a
millionaire the reality is a 10 out of
10 girl is still not going to be
physically attracted to you she's still
going to just be attracted to your
lifestyle so she's more likely to still
get her physical needs met elsewhere and
the amount of women I see cheating on
their Rich husbands is unbelievable the
weird thing about this for me and it may
just be that you're right and there's a
self-selection bias for
the female version of sociopathy quite
frankly because
typically men cheat because they want a
novel sexual experience and women cheat
because they want an emotional
experience that they're not getting from
their spouse yeah
um but this is a totally different thing
yeah because usually the emotional
connection is limited when a man is so
busy
um but I would I say rich men have it
the same way beautiful women are more
likely to be cheated on and people are
always confused by that because they'll
say to a beautiful girl that gets
cheated on that you're so beautiful how
did he cheat on you and I always say
you're the most likely to get cheated on
if you're a beautiful woman and the
reason being is in order to you've got
to remember men are terrified of women
I'm terrified of rejection it's not a
nice feeling that man that is able to go
to that 10 out of 10 in the club or the
10 and 10 of the street and try and
approach her and try and be with her is
a man who wants women and wants
beautiful women so much that he's he's
able to forego his risk of rejection he
really likes Beauty so that man is
always going to be attracted to
beautiful women beautiful women are a
big value to him he likes that that's an
important outcome for him in his life so
when you're with a woman who's super
beautiful chances are you've been with
other beautiful women or beauty means a
lot to you you're willing to risk
rejection for it so unfortunately what
happens to women is that shy quiet good
reserved man if she's really beautiful
he won't approach her he doesn't act he
doesn't care to go through the potential
rejection to get to her but the guy that
has plenty of women who really value sex
really wants a sexual intimacy really
likes Beauty he's the only pool of men
that come to her and that man is more
likely to be on faithful sexually so
beautiful women and rich men they're the
most likely to be cheated on
that's really fascinating I don't think
that's what people expect so yeah I mean
it's not necessarily the case all the
time but the reality is if I see a man
and he's chosen a very very like simple
not so pretty girl doesn't look after
yourself that man has a libido that's
different to a man that has a Playboy
Bunny wife
he's libido's different he's the type of
guy that's okay with average and isn't
super super distracted by Beauty and
just is sex doesn't isn't the full pay
of a Forefront of his mind whereas a guy
that's got the Swedish supermodel sex
means something to him beautiful girls
mean something to him accessing beauty
is important he's more likely to stray
hmm
so the the whole red pill movement with
um guys today feeling like they're
pulling back the curtain on how the
world really works and they're
understanding these games with women
um what do you tell them it's nonsense
and put it all away and it's literally
put a disease that you've inserted into
your brain
genuinely yeah how do you put it away I
have heard you say delete your dating
apps because here's the thing with the
red pill you've got to understand that
men that are successful with women don't
actually watch Redfield content yes
doesn't really appeal to the men that
have good success with women who select
women wisely who have good healthy
relationships they don't actually watch
the Redfield content that much it's the
men that suffer with women other ones
either they've been hurt or they suffer
in general they're bad at selection
they're the ones that listen to it so
what happens is it the red pill content
exaggerates their existing fears they
usually have an underlying fear or bad
or poor selection and the red pill
content will tell them exactly what to
fear how to fear and their strategy is
to avoid it but it's not actually
teaching them the skills and tools that
they need to create a good healthy
relationship it's just how to protect
yourself against the evil that is women
and so it's really dangerous to them it
actually doesn't help them overcome
their um the shortcomings it just
exaggerates them and validates them and
then makes them more fearful of women
and more weak more weak what the
Redfield content creates weak men
say more because what it does is it
teaches them how to select terrible
women
it teaches them have lots of money and
you'll get lots of girls have a young
girl that's half your age that's what
you want these women are just there for
lifestyle of course they're going to
cheat on you it treat them mean keep
them Keen basically attract a broken
woman to have a woman with no standards
who loves lifestyle is a bimbo doesn't
intellectually challenge you that's the
woman you should be with what is this
nonsense how are you going to create a
marriage out of that that's what they
teach them so what if you could be the
Empress of the red pill for a year what
would we be what are some of the
lectures that we would give to try to
get them back on track like they've got
a base assumption that the woman is the
enemy yeah uh that money is going to
solve your problems
if you've ever come across a woman
that's your enemy it's because you've
had low self-esteem and poor boundaries
it's never the woman yeah never ever
there are thieves everywhere but my
house has never been broken into because
there's a lock on the door there's drug
dealers everywhere I've never taken one
because I'm not interested in that now
if you are constantly getting played by
women you are constantly getting used by
them they're cheating on you it's
because you saw red flags and ignored
them and went forward because your low
self-esteem was driving your selection
process rather than your actual
boundaries so it's entirely and utterly
your fault there are terrible women
everywhere in the world but if you are a
man who's secure enough and willing to
walk away when you see red flags or when
you see your boundaries being crossed
enough times you will never experience
the wrath of a terrible woman you might
come across them here and there you
might get burnt here and there but
you'll never really fall prey to it but
I see men whose wives have you know
stolen access to the children don't
allow them any access taking all their
money cheated on them but I always say
to them even when it gets to that point
and she didn't put home this woman
yesterday she had all of the red flags
from day one and they'll say yeah it's
true she used to deprive her other acts
of um seeing the children or yeah she
did used to date a billionaire and took
half of his man or the red flags were
pre-existing they don't come overnight
you choose to ignore them oh she was
talking to her ex when we first got
together or she had a boyfriend when we
first met but I managed to steal her she
showed you who she was you chose to
ignore it you can't accept that you
chose badly and you as a man failed
yourself and now you want to believe
that they're the enemy when really the
enemies your own low self-esteem so how
do they raise it
um problem solving this is what a man
needs to do if you want to raise your
self-esteem it's very simple you take
all the problems you have in your life
whether it's Financial whether it's with
women whether it's with connection and
instead of seeking highs like if I'm
missing out on women I could easily hire
an escort and get the feeling of a woman
or I can work on the skills I need to
access good women I problem solve avoid
while avoiding highs if I'm overweight I
could easily just you know take a few
pills and lose a few way or get some
surgery or I can learn the skills on how
to have a healthy diet and why I use
food as a coping mechanism and get rid
of that I have to take all the problems
find a solution to them problem solve
and I'll start to respect myself far
more and once I start to realize I have
the ability to solve problems I start to
trust my own judgment a lot more and
know that if something goes wrong it's
okay I'll fix it so if she walks away
and if she doesn't like my boundaries no
worries I'll find another one I'll be
able to do it but it's a lack of ability
to problem solve makes men feel
overwhelmed and then they seek highs
rather than solving problems
why delete dating apps
um I is you know I said that but in the
reality I do understand it's very hard
to be single it's really hard to be
single I know it's super super hard to
be single and find people and meet
people in an organic way but
unfortunately what dating apps does is
it polarizes you where either you're
having abundance an illusion of options
and you think everybody's replaceable
and you just have very kind of minimal
investment relationships and you replace
people or you just get non-stop
rejection and you start to really suffer
in the form of low self-esteem and think
the dating apps I'm just going to
go and pay for an escort either way it
distorts your self-image in some way
shape or form you either start thinking
you're King of the castle because you
can get so many girls or but really most
the girls on there are also a bit you
know lonely and desperate and maybe on
the rebound or you start thinking you're
the ugliest man on the planet and you
need to rely on
um you know escorts or something like
that either way it damages the
self-esteem there are lots of success
stories and I don't completely forbid it
but I do think there's dangers in dating
apps so how do people today meet I wish
I knew I wish I knew this is one thing I
went through work yeah work related and
stuff so mine was all investment related
so I I had that luxury but I really wish
I knew because a lot of people come to
me with this question what is a good way
to meet people in La I don't know what
it would be like in LA is it bars and
clubs or I mean I wouldn't rule those
out but yeah um that isn't where I would
start people so I would figure out
because what you were saying at the
beginning is so right you want to match
somebody's values the reason that
arranged marriages as much as I'm
opposed to it has some logic is the
somebody who's been in a marriage raised
kids cares deeply about their kids
they're gonna be like okay what are the
real things that allow somebody to be
long-term successful in a marriage and
it's going to be values it's going to be
okay they share enough values that
they're going to be able to get along
they're probably looking for people that
are good at problem solving novel
problem solving is arguably the greatest
skill anybody you've got a job and you
know and all of these educated they will
have passed certain hurdles and all that
stuff it's it sounds like really boring
stuff but this this is why I like your
advice it it is grounded in reality it's
actually practical okay so
um if we know that's really what people
need to be doing in order to find
somebody I would say what are your
values what are the things you like and
then go put yourself in those physical
circumstances where you're going to be
around those people like a gym or like a
gym if that's your stick yeah but women
I would say are very weird about being
approached to the gym there's and and
look I'm I don't go to a little gym if
you're attractive enough all the rules
go down the drain unfortunately yeah
unfortunately so here then what I will
say is if you're a guy that's gonna uh
be impressive in the gym go there
because you want to be someone you're
going to be impressive yeah in fact I've
never said that out loud but that's true
here here is this is exactly how I got
my wife I was her teacher right now it
was a school for adults yeah very clear
uh and I'm only three years old I was a
teacher before as well yeah that's
probably why not in fact one of the
things I want to talk to you about make
a note on that it's a it's a good
transition isn't it going from teaching
to podcasting and stuff like that that's
interesting for me there was uh like 15
years yeah maybe almost 20. it's useful
yeah I get I get why you say that I've
never thought about that before but I
get why you say that
um yeah you were saying you met your
wife yeah so she saw me in a shared
interest so she came to learn film I was
teaching film so we both shared a deep
passion and then she saw me at my best
yeah she saw me doing something where
she was like oh yeah and then look
here's something people hate but uh
power dynamics is is a whole thing and
like I get it my wife and I are a metoo
story on a different timeline uh the
good news is she's the only student I
ever hit on literally once I was only
like three or four years apart yeah yeah
yeah yeah and a half years apart it's
not real yeah so
um
that you want to find a circumstance
like that where it's a thing like I
really enjoy this thing and it gives me
a chance to shine because you need a way
for them to see what you're good at and
what if you're not an impressive person
you have to become impressive or you
have to date down yes well you have to
date that thems are your options yeah
yeah so my whole thing is and I know
that the black pill Community really
hates the idea of of maxing what's
waxing where you go okay I'm gonna Max
my looks I'm gonna Max my body I'm gonna
Max my whatever uh but that is the only
thing that makes sense and what
do they think they just want you and
look my dearest black pill people I get
it yeah because
you can't imagine how much it wounds my
soul that I will never be as smart as
Elon Musk yeah that that really bothers
me really oh yes that causes me no small
amount of pain the fact that you're
smarter than like probably five billion
people literally doesn't help really it
doesn't help not even a little bit the
only thing that comes to my rescue is
understanding the only thing that's
torture is constantly lamenting that I'm
not going to be as smart as him okay so
that's a waste of time if there's
something I can do about it go do
something about it and if there's not
something I can do about it stop
worrying about it yeah it the whole game
is how you feel about yourself when
you're by yourself yeah that's it so if
you focus on the look
if I were horribly burned and my IQ were
lower my life would be worse there's
there's no way around two ways
unfortunately and so I I get it but if
that were my lot
investing in how shitty it is is
stupid so as somebody who my heart the
the way I'm expressing myself right now
is because I love people and I want to
see people be happy and I want to see
them flourish and so I'm telling you
it's stupid because it won't
help you be happy it won't help you find
fulfillment so you've got to take on the
Jocko willing attitude of I'm horribly
burned good yeah now what am I going to
do with my life because I can undo it so
either go become a scientist that
figures out how to deal with
horrible Burns or go be an author and uh
or develop Ready Player one and create a
world where your own physicality matters
whatever but sitting at home lamenting
it is the only thing that doesn't make
sense it's the so in my life I have a
rule I only do and believe that which
moves me towards my goals since my
number one goal is to feel good about
myself when I'm by myself I can't sit
here and spend Cycles worrying about the
fact that I'm not smarter than I am it
is what it is so I'm going to maximize
the intelligence that I have and I'm
going to figure out okay if we can all
get 100 times better literally everybody
yeah the guy with a 98 IQ can still get
100 times better because that's what the
human brain does is it grows and adapts
you have to apply yourself so what would
you say to men that are like not taking
care of their weight or just not
investing in themselves do they just
have to should they just accept that
they have to date down because what I
find with my clients that I've not taken
care of their appearance that I've not
kind of reached their potential what
they end up doing is maybe marrying
somebody that's in Thailand or living in
the Philippines who needs a Visa who
needs somebody to kind of save her and
her family and that's where they feel
impressive so instead of maxing like out
their potential or they just go find
somebody more dire that they can look
impressive in front of do you think
that's the strategy they can use if it
works but it feels like a very fragile
strategy it usually doesn't work but
that's what they think would work do you
think in the meantime that gives them a
false sense of self-esteem if it gives
them uh uh
I I don't know that it gives them a
false sense of self-esteem you're
actually able to help somebody and that
is amazing the problem is once you've
helped them then they're going to be
like rad thanks bye but yeah here's the
problem they think it will be in
exchange for emotional intimacy and you
can't actually buy emotional intimacy
you can do everything else but you
cannot buy emotional intimacy from a
woman so though it makes them feel like
a superhero they're expecting her to be
genuinely in love with him and genuinely
appreciate him when really he's her he's
a he's a like kind of Obamacare palan so
unfortunately it doesn't work that way
and they suffer in the form of lower
self-esteem on the other end but it's
something in the moment they can't help
because it helps and that's why I see a
lot of these passport Pros have you
heard of that concept it's men uh who
give up on women in America so they take
their passport and they'll go find a
90-day fiance elsewhere well yeah so
that phenomenon I think breaks into
different categories so what you're
describing I hadn't heard about I didn't
know that's a thing I would definitely
while I think when you help somebody
that is real if you're expecting that to
lead to sex and a real relationship it's
not going to
um yes I think you need to date within
your sexual Market values you need to be
honest with yourself one thing I've
always prided myself on I don't lie to
myself no and so
um that that has rewarded me richly
largely like as I got rich I did not
even think about trying to find another
woman yeah I was like dude sharing a
life with somebody is the bomb and if
somebody is with me for my money and
they're super hot they're gonna be like
I mean you've been talking about this
they're they're going to be with me not
because they're attracted to me if you
don't you know it's you're in a
monogamous relationship you'll praise be
to God I mean I don't know if your
viewers have ever seen your home but
it's unbelievable
um and so what drives I was asking Lisa
this is well what drives you guys are
literally doing so incredible but you
haven't slowed down but when what what
is it that keeps you meaning and purpose
is the only thing that matters oh
amazing meaning and it gives you a
legacy or something you don't think
about Legacy because I'm not having kids
and once I die that's it I I will be
completely unaware of anything I cannot
as I think as Marcus really has said you
can't enjoy your posthumous Fame so even
if I'm able to do something that lasts
me on me I won't know yeah I'm
dead yeah you've accepted mortality you
don't need to live beyond it yeah so I
just know that life is about a
neurochemical state and you're doing
everything you can to be fulfilled right
and so I learned very early on that the
only way to be fulfilled is to work your
ass off to gain a set of skills that
allows you to serve not only yourself
but other people in a way that you find
exciting right and so that that's it we
started impact 3 for that reason but uh
I could see myself at some point saying
this is too much I don't want to work
this much anymore
um and so I've already worked out like
if you would ever change your mind on
kids or you think no
um at this point I don't so first let me
Define how I feel about kids and by the
way for listeners listening closely
there's an open loop because I said that
there were two things uh that that could
be the passport bro thing so I will yeah
I'll try to remember to come back to
that would I ever change my mind on kids
the thing that I actually think about
because I really want kids like I really
want kids I could write you poems that
would make you convinced that I've had
kids wow now the reason I can do that is
because I'd Big Brother for a kid for
eight and a half years right and so I
know what it's like to have somebody
love you and you love them back and uh
there was a moment where he begged me to
basically be his father and and to take
him on now unfortunately I did not know
he was being abused and so I was like
man I'm So Young bro I'm like I'm not
ready to be a dad anyway so I I know
that experience maybe more intimately
than people give me credit for
um and but it's also part of why I don't
want kids so so the only thing I want
more than to have kids is to not have
kids right and one of the things I
wanted to talk to you about is
I have a real fear the only thing
this is going to be controversial the
only thing that makes a relationship
worth it to me because it is a sacrifice
and constant compromise and constantly
dealing with the way that women look at
the world which sometimes drives me
crazy and I know that the way
that men view the world try at least
crazy I totally get it
um but it it is just a big ball of
compromise yeah the only thing that
makes it worth it is to be somebody's
number one and when a woman has kids
your number whatever how many kids she
has so if she got three kids you're
number four and do you think that might
have to do with your childhood and your
dad feeling miserable
that's not how it felt growing up like
when my dad left I was super surprised I
did admittedly over time realize oh
that's why I was having those dreams
about a Loveless marriage but from the
kids perspective did your mom prioritize
you guys no so my mom was an awesome mom
I can't stress enough she's here right
now yeah I have a great relationship
with both my parents my mom is amazing
exactly what I needed exactly the reason
I think I'm so capable of dealing with
relationships she's why I didn't do
drugs or alcohol ah like I I have no
complaints about how I was raised
um but
it
when I think about
the way that what my mom said to me it
always made a lot of sense which is you
kids I'm raising you to leave us one day
and you should leave us one day but that
means I have to prioritize your dad okay
and I was always like word right like
that made a lot of sense to me okay so
the only thing I'm curious about is what
is it that makes you
um want to prioritize your marriage so
much so that you would outrun your love
for becoming a father
because that's hypothetical right and my
wife is real and I did the reality of
having kids you don't have kids yet no
no okay so uh I'll say this more for
your soon-to-be husband maybe one day
yeah uh that one day his child is going
to recount to him uh 30-second Tick Tock
video and it's gonna take him nine
minutes to tell him about the 30 second
video and he's gonna beg your child to
stop explaining it to him and he's gonna
keep going yeah because he doesn't have
a prefrontal cortex and he can't help
himself yeah and maybe your husband
finds that cute and endearing I wanted
to chew through places I think it might
be because it wasn't your biological
child it's possible yeah but it's also
possible that that is just
obnoxious and there's a reason that dads
especially will continue to lean into
work the way I would want to contribute
to the family
um is
I would want to work and build and
provide
I don't find myself I'm not a good
caretaker I don't enjoy caretaking at
all yeah well the only reason I say it's
very rare that I come across couples
that I feel are such a healthy example
to children and and I mentioned this to
Lisa as well and it's um even just from
watching you guys online
um I just thought what if they if you
two had children that would be one of
the luckiest children in the world
that's very kind of you yeah and I'm
super honestly believe it would be
fantastic and I think I would yeah I
think we'd smash it yeah I've never seen
two people so respectful of each other
so respectful of their guests
um it creates such a beautiful world and
you know I would be your child just to
tell her anyone would be and I just
remember watching an interview of you
guys I think you were talking about
resolving conflict and I just thought in
a world where the worst people on the
planet are recreating wouldn't it be
such a beautiful world of people like
this have children all the time yeah
yeah and so I I actually now you're on
to where I'm conflicted yeah because I
worry that we're headed for and this is
going to sound crazy to people that are
passionate about the environment yeah
but I worry that we're headed to
population collapse and that our problem
is not going to be overpopulation it is
going to be dramatically under
population yeah all right you just have
to look at the math the math is there we
are going to be underpopulated for sure
and so that really scares me yeah and so
now when I meet parents I thank them for
their service yeah yeah because I am
very grateful yeah I know I I genuinely
and and this is not to be like you know
tell anybody what to do but it's just
very when you see a beautiful marriage
um the psychologist in you is just like
oh my God imagine that how lucky the
child would be oh my God and so that's
my natural and plus with my you know uh
ethnic background I naturally kind of we
think kids is everything
um but no it's a very conscious decision
on your end isn't it there is no nothing
bearing so I was always just curious but
you've explained it really well I
completely understand and in my
experience of working with couples that
don't have kids they tend to have a very
magical marriage uh that they because
the only thing that will forego the
desire to have children is if you have a
connection that's worth it so that's
usually what I tend to find
yeah and I have to say like my wife is
awesome no and I'm
obsessed
so that that doesn't help you know yeah
I completely understand but here's the
thing I want people to hear me what
we're doing is a very dangerous strategy
and I actually don't advise it right and
there are days where the thought of
being a father really pulls at me yeah
and there are more days where I'm glad I
don't have them but we knew that going
on why do you think it's a dangerous
strategy because I think we are products
of evolution and evolution wants one
thing and one thing only from you and
that is that you have kids that survive
long enough to have kids and so
fulfillment if I'm right that that
really is the name of the game the most
ready-made path to fulfillment these
kids yeah they are they're amazing and
you know I understand and usually I
don't recommend them especially when the
relationship is chaotic and stuff uh
because with the wrong person they can
be a life sentence yeah and I've seen
people's lives and I've spoken to so
many women who say no matter how much I
love my child I love him to bits but
when you have it with the wrong person I
promise you you regret every single day
because it's your life you feel like
you're trapped so I said is it risk
either way I guess it's a risky story
but we are living in a world where there
definitely will be more and more people
that choose not to have children as we
as we get older it is scary and it's
usually the sensible people that choose
not to have children that's the scary
part it's always a successful
intelligence success like sensible
people who opt out of it and it's more
The Reckless people who opt in so this
is this kind of really bad news because
the more you educate women the fewer
kids are born no yeah that's true that's
very true
things are just fast yeah so I wonder
what the correlation is with that that's
very easy what do you think from an
evolutionary perspective you had no
other option basically there was no
birth control so if you wanted the
protection of a man like even just
forget romance for a second if you
wanted to be protected in times where
that was a real thing which is
the vast majority of our evolutionary
history uh you were going to have sex
yeah and if you had sex the odds of you
getting pregnant were virtually 100 yeah
so it wasn't an option yeah but women
have Incredible Minds yeah and so when
they're educated they respond the same
way I guide us this is
incredible yeah I love this there's so
many options so many things that
fascinate me so many things I want to
try I want to see if I'm good at this
yeah and so when you do that and Society
gets safer now instead of having six
kids they have one right and so even if
they still become a mother they don't
become a mother of six or twelve they
become a mother of one right yeah and so
now if if a couple only has one child
the population will be cut in half crazy
yeah so it's not like ever nobody's
having kids it's that you to hold steady
I think the numbers like 2.3 every
couple has to have 2.3 kids because of
mortality yeah so it's like you can't
around yeah and yeah so we
literally we're literally decreasing the
population rapidly so we'll go up to
something like 9.7 homosexuality has a
role to play I don't think so no look I
worry about it hey let's open a crazy
can of worms
um I have a feeling this is just a hunch
it's a hypothesis I do not have the data
on this I could be totally wrong and no
worries if I am
um
but
something is going on that's disrupting
our endocrine system I have a feeling
that it's microplastics and other
environmental toxins and
that's really causing some strange
effects the effeminization of men the
masculization of women
um and it's so visceral in America it's
like you know maybe it's just an LA
thing maybe but um but when um whenever
I'm in America the men are almost
androgynous and it's so different to
anywhere else in the world so I don't
know if I I I'm not really much of a
conspiracy theorist but it just doesn't
seem typical and I don't know if it's
just in big cities or whatever it is but
there does seem to be a shift and I
don't know if that's socially
conditioned I don't know if it's because
we're exposing people to more choices
and you know exposing to more sexual
pleasure but it does seem different
there it okay again now I'm talking
about an idea that I have not researched
so I will merely explain how I approach
the problem uh looking at it it's almost
certainly going to be multifactorial
it's going to be a lot of things but
I've had enough Health guests on the
show to know our endocrine systems are
being disrupted nobody debates that
something is going on so can you
biologically change people's sexual
orientation oh that I'm not speaking to
yeah all I'm saying is that there is
something that the androgynous Vibe is
some percentage could be one percent
could be 99 I have no idea some
percentage of the equation is going to
be when you disrupt the endocrine system
you're going to get unexpected results
in terms of sexuality sexual preference
etc etc
um
it's way too early for anybody
especially myself yeah to say
definitively what that is cultural will
also certainly be a component it is
utterly fascinating how much flexibility
there is especially in uh female
sexuality from what little literature I
have looked at females do seem to have
an easier time
um
being bisexual than men and so there's
some pretty there's like do you think
that might be linked to the fact that we
believe that men are more forgiving of
bisexuality or more encouragement women
you mean yeah or more encouraging like I
know that as a woman if you tell a man
you're bisexual it's almost encouraged
yes but if you tell a woman that you are
a bisexual man it's automatically
discouraged or at least she loses
attraction so do you think the
flexibility comes from the Forgiveness
of men or the encouragement of men okay
can I just completely derail yeah and
I'm asking the audience as much as you
so please everybody understand that I've
asked evolutionary biologists this
question and nobody knows so I am
speculating that I'm speculating having
read a lot of books on the topic uh okay
so here it goes the question I want
everyone to ask themselves ask yourself
this why on God's green earth is the
clitoris on the outside okay that
doesn't make any sense right for
you if if I'm right and all Evolution
cares about is that you have a child
that lives long enough to have a child
then women should want nice deep
penetration right because the reason why
a man thrusts deeply at orgasm is so
that the ejaculate is as close to the
cervix as humanly possible yeah so the
sperm has to travel the least amount of
distance but you put the pleasure button
for a woman on the outside what the
like that is the weirdest thing I can
possibly think of okay so then you have
to why would this be okay look at the
animal kingdom again I know I'm
speculating I know I'm way out over my
skis here but this is so interesting to
me yeah okay if you look at bonobos who
are one of our closest relatives they
will use female to female genital
contact as a way of mending
relationships right of bonding women to
women now if women are literally
biologically gifted in all the ways you
would need to be gifted in order to care
for an infant from being able to feed
them from their body that's
crazy uh fifteen percent of women have a
fourth photoreceptor which means they
actually see colors men can't see one
hypothesis is that allows them to see
changes in the skin tone of their child
to see if they're sick distressed
whatever uh their their ability to pick
up on emotions nonverbal cues they just
outscore men left right and Center
so if
the clitoris is on the outside is a way
to allow women to bond to men broken
fences in order to have additional care
for the young so that they'll team up
and they'll look after the infants
together you can understand then why the
infant would be more likely to survive
longer now I've asked that question
directly to evolutionary biologists and
they're like maybe there's absolutely no
data to back that up right but that to
me just makes all the sense in the world
so now you get to one from a guy's
perspective if I can convince two women
to be together and allow me into the mix
now I have access to two females
obviously much better from uh
evolutionary perspective if I can hoard
resources and so now it actually makes
sense for women to come to me and nature
does not give a if one guy
populates a thousand babies ten thousand
babies I mean look at Genghis Khan or
but wouldn't the women compete for the
resources compared to a monogamous man
uh women will
a guy will only be able to monopolize as
many women as they can give resources to
right is that what you're asking yeah
I'm just wondering if evolutionary
encouraged two women to be with one man
wouldn't they and maybe almost be
bisexual and just kind of make it easier
would they still not be a source of
enmity regarding the resources well so
yes undoubtedly and that's why if the
clitoris is on the answer then women can
potentially I'm making this up I have no
idea correct right and so now women have
a way to leverage oxytocin and
vasopressin that happens when you orgasm
they have access to that without needing
a penis okay now again I I am this is
just a hypothesis but man I've really
tried to invalidate this yeah and it
just there's so many things yeah that
are like huh it could be could it be
that sometimes um the reason for the
clitoris to be on the outside is because
during menstrual cycles
um they can't really get pregnant
through penetration anyway so they might
as well be a way to Outsource pleasure
without you know robot needing it's
certainly possible I and I have no data
I don't have any data I'm making this up
on it I'm just curious personal
experience women tend to be turned off
when they're on their period that they
don't want people near them they would
rather yeah let's wait so my gut
instinct is they're not like encouraging
sexual contact of any kind at that point
yeah again guess
yeah yeah but yeah it's good to kind of
stimulate I've never thought about that
before though I think honestly yeah I
wonder why like I just still find it so
curious that uh I see one thing I find
really interesting about this whole
homosexuality debate is women will will
invite other women into the relationship
and they'll be bisexual or they'll kiss
another woman or sleep with another
woman and their man is okay with it but
when they sleep with another man it's
cheating but if we are saying love is
love and gay rights are as equal to her
like straight rights wouldn't it be just
as offensive if they cheated with the
same sex partner absolutely not why
it would be for a woman because a woman
is going to so again I'm talking in
generalities none of this is universally
true this is just sort of directionally
correct but if if what women have the
most things because I've heard you say
this yeah they're not like they're going
to be thrilled that you went out and
cheated but for a woman emotional
infidelity is going to be way more
problematic than so many evolutionary
perspective as well correct well that's
only what I'm talking about yeah whereas
for a guy sexual infidelity is the only
problem like if if Lisa came home and
was like I went out uh with this guy and
we've been talking and you've been
working so much and we just really
connected now she said she was in love
that that would really grip me in a
rough way yeah but if she was like and
you know we've been flirting and um just
being really emotionally connected to
each other uh but we haven't slept
together can can we work on it be like
yeah of course yeah yeah but if she was
like I slept with him and be like peace
but the thing is I understand from an
evolutionary perspective why a man would
be less jealous if their woman was with
another woman and almost encourage that
kind of in a threesome environment or
whatever it is
um but from a woke perspective if we're
saying it's all equal and you know
homosexual relationships and
heterosexualisms are identical wouldn't
it be equally offensive I don't think
the world perspective is grounded in
reality right okay so
um my quick take on the work perspective
uh is that there is ground truth but
it's hard to ascertain yeah and the way
to figure out what is literally true is
to make a prediction
[Music]
figure out how you can test that
prediction run that test and if that
thing works out then you're close to
ground truth and so when you think of
your brain as a prediction engine
anytime where you predict something and
then you try it and it doesn't work it
should tell you you were wrong about
something there's some part of your
business correct and so the fact that it
isn't
as offensive that most look if my wife
is having an emotional affair with a
woman and I don't know about it I'm not
gonna love that I'm just saying I can
get over it in a way that I would have a
very hard time like Nature has ensured a
level like I said I'm not a jealous
person if my wife came back and said she
slept with somebody else that would
really with me yeah that would
really with me and if she oh God
let me wind myself up here for a second
if she came back and was like
he was so strong yeah and just he's he's
six six jacked and just a
schlong you need a wheelbarrow for I'd
be like that's tough yeah I would have a
very hard time with that yeah because
that triggers all the things that
Evolution has told me to worry about
right okay and so yeah yeah if she
perceived him to just do they just
suppress the evolutionary kind of effect
I think that that um so this stuff gets
complicated enough so woke culture I
believe
this is my sort of Layman's analysis uh
I think the more it study the more
people are going to find It's a
combination of two things it's a
combination of
um real compassion of really wanting
nobody left behind everybody loved
honored and respected and no matter what
you want to be that you can be that and
that they want to see you be be whoever
you want to be yeah and that they're not
going to judge you and in fact they're
they want to reflect back to you how
much they love you and that they want to
embrace that so the world breaks into
right and left for a pretty interesting
reason which is that a tribe needs both
uh people that stand up for personal
responsibility and people that stand up
for compassion if you only have
compassionate people then you will get
people that abuse that system because
they can free ride if you only have
personal responsibility then there's no
compassion and yeah obviously that's not
going to be good either so it's what I
call pathology on both sides so you you
need the tension between the two groups
so that's one part and then the other
part is what Nietzsche called the will
to power right and so people want to be
in control right and if for no other
reason than they want to control their
own life their own destiny
um and they see that it's What's called
the sneaky strategy so in the
animal kingdom there are animals that
will pretend like physiologically they
look feminine so they can get past the
dominant males because the dominant male
doesn't recognize them as male
competition correct and so then they
sneakily like hey actually I'm a guy and
then they mate and no way that actually
exists in them yeah so I have a feeling
that's all of that sort of mixed into
one it starts with something really
beautiful and then something not so
beautiful that the absence of God means
that people Scramble for uh popular
ideals and try and identify or over
identify with them as a way of virtue
cycling
well virtuous signaling is is very much
a thing everyone is going to kneel
before something uh and some of woke
ideology probably does become kneeling
before compassion and and so there's a
really interesting idea that Jordan
Peterson is playing with which I find
really really interesting that all of us
go through a Messianic complex where we
need and this is one of my primary
drivers I need to
serve the world in some way right that
is how I feel good about myself that I
work really hard to get a set of skills
that allow me to serve not only myself
but other people and so if we all have
that desire to like I want to help the
world
you're going to gravitate towards things
that are easy and one of the easy ways
to feel like you've done that is to
figure out what is virtuous point out
people that aren't virtuous and simply
attack them so rather than actually go
do something hard to serve people you
just be the person that points at other
people and says you're not racist I
found a lot of feminism was that growing
up in London and in the UK where I
didn't see oppression towards women if
anything I only found hostility Between
Women rather than between men and women
and I found that the quickest and
easiest way to show that you have a
fight and you're involved in making the
world a better place is to claim you're
a feminist and claim that you are out
there to stop men impressing women but
in my personal experience where I kept
experiencing is women oppressing other
women particularly at work so I found um
yeah why particularly at work
um maybe it was my personal experience
but what I found working with women and
but in in the UK and working with
British women in general is there was a
level of wanting to put of being very
good friends with women until you feel
like they might surpass you and
particularly in your work environment
and I found that they would encourage
men more than they would encourage women
in a teaching environment so if they
have a male colleague they'll kind of
encourage him towards a promotion but
they wouldn't encourage women I remember
walking into interviews and if I would
see a panel of women I would
automatically know I'm not getting the
job and I would I'd walk out I'd walk
out and just think there's no point
because if I would see a man woman a man
I go okay I stand a chance and I'd go in
with and I always found having a female
boss was torturous I always every job I
worked in if I had a female boss I was a
matter of time before I felt bullied out
of it I only felt it from women and I
don't know if that's a gender thing or
if that's an appearance thing or if that
is just an age thing because I was
younger then I don't know what the
confounding variable was but it kept me
a bit uh suspicious of the feminist
movement because I couldn't understand
why the enemy was men when it felt like
the enemy was Within
interesting okay let's start teasing
this idea apart
um is it possible that the anecdotal
thing experiences that you've had aren't
necessarily uh they don't absolve men so
we can set aside that men may still be
evil and problematic yes we will address
yeah but well in in the research I know
please feel free to Google but I felt
like I think I read a study that
suggested that 80 of women felt like
they had hostility from other women at
work
at work yeah and I don't know it could
just be a TED Talk that I listened to
and I just absorbed it because I felt
like that
um but I felt like um there was a lot of
hostility within women rather than
between the genders and I always felt
like is it possible you think this
because you're attractive
um potentially without realizing I don't
know what the world looks like when you
are not a threat to any woman I don't
know what if I'm being honest and sounds
very very conceited but women see
threats in women and not necessarily
because she's beautiful it might just
simply because she wears a bit of makeup
and wears a few deals and whatever it is
so I felt like I didn't know whether it
was a personal thing or whether it's
just women Between Women I didn't know
how to understand it but what I did know
is men were never the enemy and have
never been the enemy and even and this
is why I love Lisa so much even when I
do podcasts
um I tend to prefer when I aside from
Elisa because she's so well established
and so secure in herself but generally
male podcasters tends to be more
encouraging and tends to be very proud
of my progress I don't feel the same
outside of that so I it could be my
personal experience so I don't want to
talk for everybody but that's why I was
so skeptical about the feminist movement
wow that's really interesting all right
let's see what we have here research
suggests that women actually play a
significant role in perpetuating the
gender gap due to the concept known as
female hostility I genuinely never went
for a promotion when I would know that
there was females on the panel I would
never go for it whereas if it was made
on the piano I'd be like let me try my
luck let me wear something tight and try
my luck okay what is feminine as a
movement if from my personal perspective
I can't talk objectively from my
personal perspective it feels like the
most privileged members of female
history claiming to be oppressed which I
can't see why
and throughout female history
historically we've never had it easier
we've never had it so beneficial we've
never been so benefited so to see these
women and I still believe that we are a
beneficial to men in so many ways like
personally I know if I got stopped by
the police and somebody like my brother
got stopped by the police for the same
crime I I guarantee you I would leave
with a smile and a thank you and I would
leave I would safely so I know I'm
privileged
superiorly to most men in most
circumstances I know I can speak to a
boss in a way that a probably a man
couldn't I know I could speak to a
police officer in a way that other men
couldn't I feel incredibly privileged as
a woman and therefore I don't understand
the movement so it confuses me but and I
don't know if it's because my skin is so
light I don't know if it's because of
some element of you know even if it's
that then that would be racism not but
that's why I don't believe I don't
believe there is a gender issue I still
believe like my dad with an accent and
brown skin would have a disadvantage
against a English white woman in a job
environment I don't think he has a
superior chances of getting a promotion
just because he's a man
I think if anything she has it so that's
why I never understood it okay so now
let's uh let me try to steal man the
argument on the other side
women have only been in the workforce
for whatever 50 60 years
um there's so much historical Legacy of
sexism I mean you guys had to literally
throw yourself in front of horses and
just to get the right to vote yeah
uh that's a real story by the way yeah I
think she even died yeah she did die
crazy Emily something yeah so absolutely
bananas that this sort of default stance
was of course you can't vote yeah
um and even Winston Churchill who I
think is phenomenal at first was like
Yeah women shouldn't be allowed to vote
obviously uh so one thing I always say
to that when people tell me that is at a
time where white women couldn't vote
they could still own black slaves
that's horrifying let's say for example
I'm a white woman who couldn't vote I
could still own a black man as a slave
so do men have an advantage black woman
yeah but then does it show me that women
had it bad if it really was a gender
thing wouldn't it just be men above
women but what's really going on is that
there was a class system issues so the
reality is if I'm a woman and I was
claiming I was so oppressed in 1920 I
could still get a black man arrested and
lynched for whistling at me okay so
you're saying the breakdown the
problematic breakdown is not along
gender lines there's a problematic
breakdown way
deeper than that yeah it's probably more
money than it is anything else and the
reality of things money is the real uh
division between people I don't think
it's gender related there's some race to
it but I still believe that as a woman
of color if I learn a certain amount I
would have same or no more privilege
than a white woman who earned nothing so
I would still say it's money related but
I don't think it's gender related I
really don't think it is it makes no
sense to me that a woman would complain
about not being able to vote but she
would have a monopoly over men of color
at the time so it wasn't so much gender
in my mind I could be wrong if we can
remove any of the confounding variables
that would certainly make it easier so
if we just talk about the things that
you hear uh the gender pay Gap that
comes up a lot uh women being expected
to be at home women having a harder time
getting promoted at work uh
do you have any steps what would make me
feel like a little bit what I would try
and understand there is when I see women
not getting paid as much I have to
remember in from what I see is women
want to have children choose part-time
roles more than men choose to be
part-time after children so like it
makes promotion on a more logical stance
less realistic it's just less realistic
that I'm going to pay you to do a
promoted role when three days out of the
week you're not there so it doesn't seem
like it's gender related it's
circumstantial I don't think we're
victims because we're women I think our
biology and our evolutionary pressures
direct us in a way that make us less
proficient Amen in certain workforces
but it's not because we're our agenda
it's because of our biological pressures
and our personal choices so that's what
I experienced
um from my work I could be wrong but I
think the stats would suggest that women
um probably would uh choose to be
part-time after kids far more than men
would
and yeah that that I think the data will
bear that out but admittedly I also just
don't think why we why we're creating
that Division I don't understand it I
think if we looked at it historically
everybody suffered at some stage or not
yeah and it would usually be the people
who would Escape suffering tend to be
the ones with money not necessarily men
or not necessarily just white people it
would be people with money and so that's
why I try not to go down the gender role
and the whole idea of feminism and stuff
even though I get so many messages and
I'm very grateful for women who are like
oh you're inspiring and I'm like oh but
you need to be careful because I'm not a
feminist I'm going to offend you at some
point but yeah so they're gonna hate me
so I always try and take it with a pinch
of salt because I know the moment I talk
about feminism all of that strength that
they love hearing me talk about when it
comes to Red Pill goes straight to anger
and resentment when I talk about
feminism which is why I almost feel like
maybe I am gender neutral maybe I am a
they them because I tend to be quite
balanced and neutral I try to be but is
that offensive what I'm saying I know it
might be taken as such but I don't mean
it in an offensive way
um I am not I'm not at all offended to
me these things are empirical questions
that have data that backs them up uh and
so looking at that
um seems self-evident so uh to address
one part of this which is the gender pay
gap which Thomas Soule has spoken very
eloquently to and he said if you compare
it's basically women that have never had
kids versus everybody else yeah and so
women that have never had kids if I'm
not mistaken end up outperforming I
would imagine uh men and that really
it's a mother you can think of it as a
mother tax I imagine now
I would think from an evolutionary
perspective that women would feel pretty
good with their choice about I want to
go home and spend time with my kids so
that one doesn't seem super surprising
to me yeah and I always come at it from
from uh just pure entrepreneur
standpoint and I'm like I could not care
less if the person is a woman right so
but if you leave which I've never had a
guy leave when he had a kid yeah but
I've had women yeah many women many
women me too because they have kids yeah
and God bless them like go do your I'm
very happy for them but the irony is
I'll have women hey I'm you know I've
gotten pregnant I'm gonna be taking
leave amazing I'm so excited for you and
they're like but I'm definitely coming
back and I'm always like hey everybody
says that you're going to want to wait
until you actually hold that kid in your
arms and then make your life beautiful
decision to make thank you for your
service I'm captain thank you for your
service guys you know it's a beautiful
decision to make but the the the agony
about the gender pay gaps makes no sense
like you I I know so many women who the
moment they have a child every all their
career doesn't mean as much to them so
when they fight about feminism and
gender pay gaps and stuff like that it
feels like an empty fight it feels like
a self-inflicted wound that they're
trying to cover up but what is it
fighting for like maybe I've just got it
wrong because I've always been
anti-feminism but maybe I've
misunderstood it because I've just my
personal experience and also I'm very
biased I have a bunch of sisters I'm not
close to so I grew up with a negativity
towards women so maybe that's what made
me less sympathetic to their causes so
maybe I'm missing something well Lisa I
think and I don't want to get her in
trouble here speaking on her behalf but
the way that she's always seen this is
um
shiv is a strong independent woman earns
her own money does her own thing and her
take is anything that's anti-min I am a
hundred percent opposed to yeah just as
I'm opposed to anything that's
anti-women we are partners and if like
my whole thing is
the whoever the the world is made up of
men and women
come together yeah
celebrate what each other is good at we
are going to we we have been
evolutionarily shaped to be different
but we overlap far more than we are
different and recognizing that we each
bring something to the party and wanting
to celebrate that to me is the only
thing that makes sense I do not see
women in an adversarial sense
um but at the same time going back to
the idea that the brain is a prediction
engine women don't make sense to me when
I think of them like a man but when I
learn about women and I learn how their
minds work and what their biased towards
then I can predict their behaviors yeah
and women the same with men and so the
the thing I worry about is anything that
makes us adversarial which the modern
feminist movement seems very anti-men
and then anything that says there is no
difference yeah and that we're all the
same we can be whatever we want that's
what I'm like reality is going to bite
you in the ass like this is going to get
really proud and I have to preface that
I haven't worked in a corporate industry
so I don't know what it's like in those
environments where there's corporate you
know where men do Dominate and stuff but
I do just think in my the privilege I
privileges I have from being a woman
outweigh any of the um clans of being
them and I and I that might be being a
particular type of woman but it just
feels like having a feminine energy
definitely works in your favor when it
comes to judicial system or when it just
comes to getting helping behavior and
stuff I don't really feel that
um like disadvantaged from being a woman
in any way shape or form yeah the way
that I think this breaks down in reality
is men and women are different and so
people are going to be very confused
sometimes offended guys are going to
speak in a way that women don't like
women are going to speak in a way that
men don't like and so they're I've
thought a lot about this when it comes
to race and it's really not about any
given race it's about who's the majority
and certainly who's the majority in
power and so if you think about that
because I'm obsessed with Japanese
culture right but
you could make a pretty compelling
argument that the Japanese are
freakishly racist in Japan in the sense
that they don't even let Outsiders like
the percentage of Outsiders they don't
try and hide it or anything like that
and they'll take pictures of you if you
have different color and stuff like that
but here's what I in Dubai's racist I
live in Dubai and your past but
determines your pay Gap and you know and
stuff like that so it's nothing to do
with the agenda you come in with a
passport a British pass but you'll get
paid more if you have a Pakistan than a
Pakistani passport yeah yeah and I'm
Pakistani wait that's like you're
actually an official thing it's an
official thing yes it's written down
somewhere it's an official thing yeah so
we could go for the I could be a doctor
and somebody from Pakistan with the
Pakistani passport could be a doctor and
I'll be paid more because I have a
British fastball and they have a
Pakistani passport and I don't mean this
in any offense to Dubai or anything like
that because I very much love the
country to work in but there is very
clear divisions and it's very much like
they still get paid far more than they
would in Pakistan but it's definitely
far less than I would get as a British
and I have a dual passport so I just you
know hand in my British passport and I
get paid you know very considerably a
lot better yeah it's shocking but here's
what happens in those environments what
I don't what I like about it is it's
clear as day you can either come or you
don't it's up to you what I found
difficult in uh in the UK is that it's
almost hidden or it's almost
structurally so I'd rather just know
where I stand and then I can either
choose to be a part of it or I can leave
but when it's not there and it's almost
structural I find that harder to
navigate because I felt like um there
was there is a division in terms of like
uh not so much ethnicity but values
because I don't drink and I don't go to
the pub after work and I don't go out
with them and you know how they
socialize I'm limited in how much I can
access the you know the In Crowd when it
comes to work so I'd rather it just be
on paper is that wild that I that's wild
yeah I would rather oh God
I uh uh I would rather it not be on
paper because there's nothing you can do
when it's like the Illusions I I keep it
real weird yeah but you guys are like
that yeah so first of all they don't
like they don't think they're doing it
and that's the thing they don't think I
have to say that they don't mean to do
it yeah it's not coming from a malicious
place they don't realize they're doing
it a lot of the time a hundred percent
and when so for instance when I see an
all woman company I'm excited for them
yeah word do your thing yeah but then I
also think that if a guy wants to he
should be able to do an all-male company
yeah because then it's like I personally
yeah here's what I my current thesis is
higher for culture for sure you want to
share values with people and then find
the smartest hardest working people you
can find male or female yeah but
an all-male company would be easier to
get along because I can talk I know how
I can talk I know how they're going to
interpret things yeah and you know what
paternity leave looks like and you know
that they are coming back and I
completely understand that
um so you know like I said I could be
totally wrong but because I'm somebody
who's so let's keep it real with me just
keep it real with me I'd rather be in an
environment where I know what the score
is than given the illusion of hope that
you can make it but it probably you
won't no I definitely wouldn't like that
you would really no I I really I can't
have a rule that says like I can't do
this divisive I mean to me that's like
1960s America where like we're literally
just like you yeah you're red line
that's what it is is that isn't it yeah
that's really really gnarly and I need
to believe that even if one of the
things I have to get good at is fitting
in cool like so Japan I've thought a lot
about this at one point I considered
like do I convince Lisa to move to Japan
like I'm into Japan that kind of way
yeah and I thought okay I would have to
do deal with societal racism I don't I
don't want to put that word is it just
the way that because I don't know how to
describe this I'm much more comfortable
saying School efficient because I don't
think that they have I don't think they
mean it it's
just their country is their country and
they are used to seeing a sea of
Japanese people and they don't love the
idea whatever I get it I come from
America where we're a Melting Pot I love
that and that's a huge part of my
identity is I think that's dope and I'm
a big believer in you you can only get
to the truth by having a lot of
different perspectives I think that's
really powerful I think you want to
share values and not share insights yeah
um so
that I'll just call school of fish well
you're up against the school of fish
people tend to flock with people that
look like them as a proxy for people
that think like them and there's an
evolutionary reason for that as well for
sure I think honestly all humans really
care about is do you share my values
that's the that's the thing that
everything else is a proxy there is an
indicator of that correct I understand
it yeah it's a shared thing yeah now it
can go super wrong humans are
weird and we haven't Us Versus Them
thing that does not it doesn't serve us
well in a modern context no but it makes
total evolutionary sense if somebody was
a different color to you and but coming
into your tribe you would know they're
there to invade they're not there to say
hi to you so it makes sense to have a
level of fear or um skepticism of people
of different colors it doesn't
necessarily have to mean that it's
coming from a negative place or that's
why I understand Japanese culture I
don't feel like they mean it maliciously
they literally don't understand
I consider moving there yeah at the same
time I get it white people tend to have
a hard time Outsiders they have a real
problem with foreigners right okay what
what do they think you're gonna do I
have no idea okay that I won't speak to
I don't know enough about it but I know
some people that grew up in America that
now live there and they're like bro when
they had a breakdown of who got the
vaccine when it was like foreigners were
like in 97th place it was like every
conceivable stack of Japanese person
yeah and then the like sickest oldest
Foreigner then they could finally get it
but it was like you know you're
perfectly healthy 19 year old Japanese
kid a hundred percent was getting the
vaccine yeah you know there's a
weirdness to it when I'm in coaches
which prioritize their own culture first
I almost just signed the imaginary
contract and accept it that's the way
whereas when you grow up in a country
which expels the idea of racism and says
that everybody's equal you almost end up
looking for the inequalities more
there is something to that but I think
here's where it breaks for me if you're
born in that country it's pretty shitty
to say well why don't you go move to a
different country that yeah like so
now that's that's rough and as an
American like I dig the whole Melting
Pot thing yeah so it's like I want this
to be a rad place but for people who
share my values I won't lie like I care
about values yeah and so that's where I
can get like I really believe in freedom
of speech yeah and so when people are
like you shouldn't have freedom of
speech then I get the heebie-jeebies and
then where do you draw the line between
freedom of speech and freedom to offend
I think you should be allowed to offend
any buddy okay so it's an equal
the only thing I'll say is you shouldn't
be able to incite violence yeah I agree
I agree but I think you can offend
everybody with as long as you're looking
for the pursuit of truth I think if
somebody's intention is to find truth is
trying to be funny if you're trying to
be if it's a comedian or something yeah
I find that funny I can take a joke okay
so if you do you have to be a comedian
to say
um usually with a comedian the goal is
to make people laugh rather than the
goal is to offend yes yeah but Dave
Chappelle makes a lot of people very
very very mad I'm a big fan of Dave
Chappelle so am I I'm a huge fan and
what I love about his comedy is he's not
he he's not far from the truth and the
jokes that he's making he makes jokes
but they are what if he wasn't because
here's what I'm protecting against I do
not want anyone to be the Arbiter of
whether they think he's going for truth
I would honestly say is the truth is
never offended by reality and what I
mean by that is if I looks like I'm
Muslim I believe it to be true now if
you come up with real examples chances
are it won't knock my face but if I
believe something that's relatively
delusional I will constantly be offended
by reality and that's what I always say
is if you're offended by reality you
have to reassess your truth because
reality shouldn't offend you now when
Dave Chappelle makes a few jokes he
usually checks reality and throws it in
the face of people that are he thinks
are a warped of reality and I just think
genuinely speaking if you stand on truth
it won't be offended by reality reality
will only confirm your truth I see
people offended by the truth all the
time then they then they're holding on
to a delusional belief I agree with them
yeah but who gets to decide what's
delusional uh well reality does reality
testing so here's the thing like for
example I watch Matt Walsh's what is a
woman and then he would ask people what
is a woman and they're like oh you have
to ask a woman I'm not a woman that
doesn't there's no they find biology
offensive
and if you're finding reality offensive
then your truth is delusional but
they're gonna say that you're delusional
so I'll steal men their side of the
argument yeah
um you're confusing
biological sex with gender and gender is
generated in the brain and it is a
spectrum and so what you're calling a
woman is really somebody that is a
birthing person I forget the uh
so yeah but now what do you do with that
because they believe that they are
correct well I would say to that is and
if you believe gender is a psychological
construct why when you are a man that
wants to be a woman do you change your
biology
yeah I mean I can give you an answer and
I can still amend them till the end of
time but I think the real question to
ask is what should happen to somebody
who is obviously wrong but they're
saying something well it's not that
anything should happen to them we should
keep saying they can say it but we
shouldn't be tiptoeing around their
delusion oh I think everybody should say
what they think everyone should say
whatever the they shouldn't be as
legally sanctioned to tiptoe and offend
the person who's detached from reality
which is what's starting to happen I
take I take a different stance on that
which is that I don't think uh we want
people determining what is true I think
going back to my obsession the key is
that you don't want anybody who gets to
be the Arbiter of what is true yeah
because that's where we run into trouble
I actually think the truth is oftentimes
very difficult to ascertain I think the
truth is objective I don't think the
truth is subjective I think the truth is
hard to identify so think about
um Newton so many people say he's the
smartest man to ever live but he was
wrong about physics but he was so close
that we were able to pinpoint the
movement of the Stars the heavens and
the Earth and all that
Newtonian physics got us to the moon but
we needed Einstein's physics in order to
create GPS
nuclear energy Atomic weapons Etc so
Newton was wrong
but it was still useful
Einstein is wrong yeah even though he
moves us forward but he still doesn't
have a yeah he doesn't have a unified
theory now imagine if everybody said hey
hey Einstein shut up that's wrong it
doesn't make any sense yeah you need to
stop with that because that's what
people did when you first came up with
the ideas everybody thought he was out
of his mind and
I think that is super dangerous and yet
humans do it all the time
do you think the agenda debate we should
ground it in reality or ground it in
people's emotional responses to being
offended I uh you can't ever do uh hear
me when I say yeah somebody getting
offended is completely irrelevant yeah
and this should all be about I mean
depend like you're gonna have to break
everything up into its subcategories I
think people should be able to live
their lives however they want yeah I
think people should be treated with
respect and I think that
um
you if you're putting forward something
as true we should be able to put it
through the scientific method to find
out if that actually is true and
everybody should Champion that nobody
should say
that is the thing that's beyond reproach
you can't question that another question
everything right everything
and so like it should we put it through
the psychology the biological testing of
just gender genitals or should we just
you know accept their reality with that
that's going to come down to entirely
why are we testing it what are we trying
to figure out what's the the purpose or
the point what is the outcome that what
is the outcome that's bringing the
question to bear so I don't live in
there later I don't know how big the
debate is here where I'm farming to buy
this non-existent but is it quite a big
debate in America day-to-day existence I
never encounter it on the internet on
the inside I seems so exaggerated on the
internet it seems like everybody in
America doesn't know what gender means
anymore
it comes up in some very surprising
moments yeah
um
and I have my share of worries uh when
it comes to uh
kids that's where I get concerned yeah
um I always get concerned anytime that
the biggest beneficiary of any law is a
pharmaceutical
that is probably a very reasonable thing
to be skeptical of so the only stance I
will take is everyone should be able to
question everything right so people
should be able to question the
pharmaceutical industry
religion everything nothing should be
Beyond reproach and the scientific
method should be our ultimate Arbiter of
Truth when we need to pin something down
so it's a way of testing validity yeah
because I human flourishing human
flourishing that's where I come down I
agree for sure
it's a long-winded way of agreeing isn't
it yes this has been incredibly fun
Saudia where can people follow you at
Saudia psychology on YouTube Instagram
and Tick Tock I also have a patreon
where you I get more of my extended
information just solo and can also
answer questions on that if you have any
so that's where to find me I love it the
most okay all right everybody if you
haven't already be sure to subscribe and
until next time my friends be legendary
take care peace check out my
conversation with Matthew Hussey to
learn the three biggest reasons why most
relationships do not last today on
impact Theory relationship expert
Matthew Hussey walks us through why the
majority of relationships do not succeed
continuing to grow is one of the Great